Alexander, J. Iwan School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Dean Emeritus of Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2013, BSc (University College Swansea), PhD (United World College of the Atlantic), PhD (Washington State University)
Andrews, J. Barry School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 1976, B.S. (UAB), M.E., PhD. (Florida), P.E. (Alabama), Polymer and Metal Matrix Composites,
Banas, Paulina College of Arts and Sciences Department of Arts Art History, Assistant Professor of Art History, 2022, B.A., M.A. (Sorbonne Université-Paris-IV), Ph.D. (Binghamton University) Banaszak Holl, Mark M. School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Dean for
Research, Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2022, BS (University of Chicago), PhD (Cornell), Structure and properties of biological materials; nanotechnology for drug and gene delivery, polymer composites, and sustainable polymer science and engineering.
Bentley, J. Nicole School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, 2018, BS (University of Georgia, Athens), MD (Medical College of Georgia), Functional and movement disorders
Bhat, Krishna School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2024, MD (VCM College of Medicine), PhD (Memorial University School of Medicine), Molecular genetics of synaptic connectivity and axon guidance
Brott, Brigitta School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Cardiovascular Disease, 2000, BS (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), MD (Loyola University-Chicago), Angiogenesis, cardiac angioplasty, coronary artery disease, cardiac catheterization, interventional cardiology and stents
Burke, Donald S. School of Engineering Department of Advanced Safety Engineering and Management, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2013, B.S., Ph.D. (UAB), Safety; Safety engineering; Project management
Callahan, Dale School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2000, B.E.E. (Auburn), M.B.A. (Auburn-Montgomery), M.S.E.E. (UAB), Ph.D. (Alabama), P.E. (Alabama), Technology leadership and innovation; Entrepreneurship; Internet of Things; Wireless communications.
Cardenas, Carlos E. School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, 2021, BS (University of Alabama in Huntsville), MS (East Carolina University), PhD (University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center), Medical physics
Chawla, Krishan Kumar School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Materials Science and Engineering, 1998, B.S. (Banaras Hindu, India), M.S., Ph.D. (Illinois, Urbana-Champaign), Metal, Ceramic, and Polymer Matrix Composite Materials; Fibers; Foams
Chen, Jieyang College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, 2023, B.E. (Beijing University of Technology), M.S., Ph.D. (University of California)
Cinnella, Pasquale School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2017, B.S. (University of Bari, Italy), Ph.D. (Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University), Dynamics, fluid dynamics, heat transfer
Connor, David A. School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Chair and Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1978, BEE. MS, PhD (Georgia Institute of Technology), Engineering, design leadership
Copham, Craig A. School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 1996, BS, MC (UAB), PE (AL), Structural design; Engineering materials
Deutsch, Georg School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology (School of Medicine), 1988, PhD, Cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging Di Gangi, Paul School of Business Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Dobbins, Allan C. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 1996, BSC (Dalhousie University), BSE, MSE, PhD (McGill University), Human and machine vision, neural computation, brain imaging, scientific visualization
Downs, J. Crawford School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, 2012, BA, MA, MS, PhD (Tulane University), Experimental and computational ocular biomechanics, intraocular pressure and physiologic signal telemetry, and 3D histomorphometry
Dowswell, Bo School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2000, BS (Auburn University), MS, PhD (UAB), PE (AL), Structural steel design, structural steel connections, structural stability
Eberhardt, Alan School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Chair of Education and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 1991, B.S., M.S. (University of Delaware), Ph.D. (Northwestern University), Solid Mechanics, Injury
Fast, Vladimir G. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 1997, BS, MS, PhD (Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology), Optical imaging of electrical and ionic activity in the heart mechanisms of cardiac arrhythmias and defibrillation Fathallah-
Shaykh, Hassan College of Arts and Sciences Department of Applied Mathematics, Professor of Neurology; Mathematics; Integrative, Developmental and Cell Biology; Biomedical, Electrical, and Mechanical Engineering, 2008, M.D. (American Univ of Beirut), Ph.D. (Illinois at Chicago), Mathematical Biology, Systems biology of cancer, Dynamics of molecular networks, Biological rhythms
Fazio, Massimo A. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor (Ophthalmology and Biomedical Engineering), 2007, M.S.E., Ph.D. (University of Calabria, Italy), ocular tissue biomechanics with emphasis on in-vivo mechanical quantification of the neural damage caused by elevated intraocular pressure
Feldman, Dale S. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 1985, BS (Northwestern University), MS (Dayton University), PhD (Clemson University), Biomaterials, Soft-tissue biomechanics, Polymeric implants
Fiedler, Robin L. School of Education Department of Human Studies, Instructor of Educational Psychology and Research, 2008, B.S. (Edinboro), M.Ed. (Virginia Commonwealth), Ph.D. (Auburn), Measurement, Educational Psychology, Educational Statistics
Fiveash, John School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vice Chair and Professor of Radiation Oncology, 2012, B.S. (University of Georgia), M.D. (Medical College of Georgia), Clinical trials of novel therapeutics in combination with radiation therapy, particularly in the treatment of brain and prostrate tumors; treatment planning research and education IMRT and IGRT
Foley, Robin D. School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, 1990, BS, MS (University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign), PhD (University of Wisconsin-Madison), Materials Characterization, Physical Metallurgy, Metals Casting
Fouad, Fouad H. School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Chair and Professor Emeritus of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 1981, BS (Alexandria University), ME (University of Texas at Austin), PhD (Texas AM), PE (AL, TX), Structural Engineering, Reinforced Concrete, Concrete Materials
Fouad, Mona School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Professor and Senior Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, School of Medicine, 1987, MD (Alexandria University, Egypt), MPH (UAB)., Public health; Minority/Urban preventative medicine
Geng, Baocheng College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, 2021, B.S. (Shanghai Jiao Tong University), 2021, Ph.D. (Syracuse University)
Gilray, Thomas College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, 2018, B.S. (Oregon), M.S., Ph.D. (Utah) Giordano-
Gladysz, Gary School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Adjunct Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, 2017, BE (Youngstown State University), MS (Ohio University), PhD (New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology), Materials Science and Engineering, Chemical Engineering; Syntactic Foams
Grant, Merida School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurobiology, 2012, BS (Temple University), PhD (Duke University), Relationship between stress and depression, voxel-based morphometry, functional MRI, measures of peripheral physiology, endocrine function, cognition, and emotion
Green, David G. School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1981, BS, MS (University of Alabama in Huntsville), Collaborative systems, internet applications, software engineering, engineering design
Griffin, John A. School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, 2011, B.S.Mt.E, M.S.Mt.E. (UAB), Metals Casting, Testing and Characterization, Nondestructive Evaluation
Grimes, Gary J. School of Health Professions Department of Health Informatics, Ph.D., Professor (Electrical and Computer Engineering)
Grytz, Rafael School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, 2012, MS, PhD (Ruhr-Universität Bochum), Connective tissue growth and remodeling, multiscale finite element modeling, multiphoton microscopy, optical coherence tomography, predictive computational medical for precision medicine in ophthalmology
Hartzes, Anastasia School of Public Health Department of Biostatistics, Assistant Professor, 2019, Ph.D. (UAB), Meta-analysis, Markov Models, Multiple Sclerosis.
Hasan, Ragib College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Associate Professor of Computer Science, 2011, B.S. (Dhaka, Bangladesh), M.S., Ph.D. (Illinois Urbana- Champaign)
Hawkins, Richard B. School Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2017, BS (University of Montevallo), MEng (UAB), Environmental Engineering, Structural Testing, Construction Management
Hemrick, James School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2017, BS (University of Missouri-Rolla), MS (Georgia Institute of Technology), PhD (University of Missouri-Rolla), Ceramic Engineering, Materials Science and Engineering
Holloway, Stacey College of Arts and Sciences Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor of Art, 2009, B.F.A (Purdue), M.F.A. (Minnesota-Twin Cities), Sculpture, Ceramics, Engineering
Holman, William L., School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Cardiothoracic Surgery, 1988, BA (Williams College), MD (Cornell University Medical College), Management of advanced heart failure; Mechanical circulatory support devices.
Holmes, Jeffrey W School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Dean of Engineering, Goodrich Endowed Chair in Cardiovascular Surgery. Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, Cardiovascular Disease, Cardiothoracic Surgery,, 2020, BS (Johns Hopkins), PhD/MD (UC-San Diego). C, Cardiac mechanics; Model-based design of therapies for heart disease; Multi-scale computational modeling of heart mechanics and remodeling; Structure and mechanics of healing myocardial infarcts; Cardiac hypertrophy and remodeling; Scar formation, extracellular matrix turnover, and fibrosis.
Hsu, Shih-Min School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Instructor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2000, BS (National Taiwan University of Science and Technology), MS, PhD (LSU), PE (LA), Power systems; Machinery; Dynamic stability; Model validation.
Ideker, Raymond E. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Cardiovascular Disease, 1994, MD (University of Tennessee-Knoxville), Study of cardiac arrhythmia, cardioversion and electrical ablation for treatment of arrythmia
Jannett, Thomas C. School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1984, BSE, MSE (UAB), PhD (Auburn University), Internet of Things, embedded artificial intelligence, biomedical instrumentation, control systems
Janowski, Gregg M. School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs and Graduate Studies, Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 1990, BSMetE, MSMetE, PhD (Michigan Technological University), Engineering education, assessment and accreditation, physical metallurgy, structure-processing-property relationships.
Johnson, David L. School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Adjunct Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2005, BS, MS (Mississippi State University), PE (AL), Geotechnical Engineering; Foundation design
Johnstone, John K. College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Associate Professor of Computer Science; Associate Professor of Ophthalmology; Undergraduate Program Director of Computer Science and Bioinformatics, 1994, B.S. (Saskatchewan, Canada), M.S., Ph.D. (Cornell)
Jololian, Leon School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Interim Chair and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2017, BS (Manhattan College), MS (Georgia Institute of Technology), MS (Polytechnic University), PhD (New Jersey Institute of Technology), Software engineering, Internet of Things, mobile and cloud computing, machine learning
Jun, Ho-Wook School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2006, BS, MS (Hanyang University), PhD (Rice University), Biomimetic nanotechnology, Biomaterials, Tissue engineering
Kannappan, Ramaswamy School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2015, BPharm, MPharm (Tamilnadu DR. M.G.R. Medical University), PhD (Niigata University), Aging cardiomyopathy, Cardiac stem cells
Kim, Harrison School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology, 2006, BS (Sungkyunkway University), MBA (UAB), PhD (University of Arizona), Pancreatic, liver, prostate and brain cancer imaging, AI code development for automatic medical image processing
Kirby, Jason School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Associate Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2005, BS (Auburn University), MS PhD (University of Alabama), Sustainability; Environmental engineering; Water resources; Hydraulics.
Koomullil, Roy P. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2022, BS (Mahatma Gandhi University), MS (Indian Institute Technology), PhD (Mississippi State University), Computational fluid dynamics (CFD), rigid body dynamics, bio-medical flow modeling, machine learning for fluid dynamics
Krishnamurthy, Prasanna School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2016, BVSc, Ph.D. (Bangalore Veterinary College), MVSc (Indian Veterinary Research Institute), Cardiovascular pathophysiology and regeneration, comorbid depression, diabetes, stem cell biology, sepsis, therapeutics
Lei, Ye School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2022, BS (Shanghai Medical University), PhD (National University of Singapore), Heart regeneration; Stem cells; endothelial dysfunction, diabetes
Lemons, Jack E. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, University Professor Emeritus, 1968, Ph.D. (Florida), Biocompatibility profiles of surgical implant devices with an emphasis on the role(s) of element and/or force transfers along biomaterial-to-tissue interfaces
Lingasubramanian, Karthikeyan School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Instructor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2022, MS, PhD (University of South Florida), Design of integrated circuits and systems, electronics reliability, hardware cybersecurity, photonics
Lisenbee, Shannon School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Instructor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2020, BS (Mississippi State University), MS (UAB), Engineering graphics, computational mechanics, thermal energy systems
Littlefield, David L. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2005, BS, MS, PhD (Georgia Institute of Technology), Computational mechanics, impact mechanics and shock physics, weapons effects
Lu, Kathy School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Chair and Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2023, BS (Tianjin University), MS, PhD (Ohio State University), Polymer derived ceramics and composites, materials degradation in harsh environments, data-driven materials processing and characterization, materials synthesis, processing, characterization, and fundamental studies
Ma, Ling College of Arts and Sciences Department of World Languages and Literatures, Instructor of Chinese, 2013, B.A. (Jinan University, China), B.S. (UAB), Chinese Language Training Program (Troy; Sun Yat-sen University, China) M.Ed., (UAB) MacCarthy, Sarah School of Public Health Department of Health Behavior, Associate Professor Magic City LGBTQ Health Studies Endowed Chair, 2021, Sc.D., (Harvard School of Public Health), LGBTQ health, systematic mixed-methods, community-led research MacDougall, Mary School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Adjunct Professor of Periodontology, 2019, BS (Saint Mary’s College), PhD (UAB), Genetic dental diseases, Tooth development, Mineralized matrix, Gene regulation Madden-
Mahapatra, Manoj K. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2015, BTech (University of Calcutta), MTech (Indian Institute of Technology), PhD (Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University), Ceramics and glasses for advanced energy systems, structural ceramics, chemistry-processing- structure-property relationship, electrochemistry, materials degradation
Marion, Ken R. College of Arts and Sciences Department of Biology, Professor Emeritus of Biology, 1971, B.A., Ph.D. (Washington, St. Louis), Animal Natural History and Aquatic Environmental Biology Marquaz- School of Engineering
Nostra, Bernadette Department of Engineering, Associate Professor of Radiology, 2023, . BS (California State University Fullerton), PhD (University of California Davis), Development of novel imaging agents for PET and SPECT and dual-tracer imaging strategies for predicting and monitoring response to antibody therapeutics in oncology
Marstrander, Jon School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Instructor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2005, BS, MS, PhD (UAB), PE (AL), Signal and image processing, embedded systems, field programmable gate arrays
Safety, Noise Exposure and Sustainability McCain, Kevin College of Arts and Sciences Department of Philosophy, Professor of Philosophy, 2012, B.A. (Southeast Missouri State), M.A. (Missouri-Columbia), Ph.D. (Rochester) McCay, Jeffrey E. School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Adjunct Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2021, BSCE (UAB), PE, PLS (AL), Land Surveying McClintock, James B. College of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 27 Department of Biology, University Professor Emeritus of Polar and Marine Biology, 1987, B.S. (California), M.S., Ph.D. (South Florida), Marine Invertebrate Chemical Ecology, Climate Change Biology McClure, Colleen School of Business Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Assistant Professor of Distribution, 2022, Ph.D. (Oklahoma State University) McCormick, Lisa School of Public Health Department of Health Policy and Organization, Professor and Associate Dean of Public Health, Dean's Office, 2010, Dr.PH. (UAB), Program evaluation, training outcomes, public health preparedness McCornack, Steven College of Arts and Sciences Department of Communication Studies, Professor, 2015, B.A. (Washington), M.A., Ph.D. (Illinois at Urbana-Champaign) McCracken, Michael School of Dentistry Department of Clinical Dentistry, Professor of Behavioral and Population Sciences, 2010, MS, PhD (UAB), DDS (University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill), Dental implants, Biomimetic materials, Growth factors McDaniel, David R. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Research Associate Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2008, BS (US Air Force Academy), MS (George Washington University), PhD (University of Colorado, Colorado Springs), High performance computing, computational fluid dynamics, multidisciplinary air vehicle simulation McEnerney, Laura School of Nursing Instructor of Nursing, 2024, B.S.N. (Auburn Univ.), M.S.N. (UAB) McGrath, Shelly A. College of Arts and Sciences Department of Criminal Justice, Associate Professor, 2008, B.S. (St. Mary’s), M.S. (Ball State), Ph.D. (Southern Illinois), Quantitative
Menasche, Phillipe School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2019, M.D., Ph.D. (University of Paris), Stem-cell-derived extracellular vesicles for the treatment of heart failure
Mirbozorgi, S. Abdollah School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2018, BS (Mazandaran University), MS (Ferdowsi University of Mashhad), PhD (Laval University), Advancing innovative neurotechnologies, short-range wireless power and data transmissions, ultrasound technologies, integrated analog/mixed-signal circuits and microsystems, assistive technologies
Mirov, Sergey B. College of Arts and Sciences Department of Physics, University Professor of Physics, 1993, Master (Moscow Power Engineering Institute), Ph.D. (USSR Academy of Sciences), Experimental quantum electronics, solid-state lasers, laser spectroscopy
Moradi, Lee School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Professor of Mechanical Engineering; Director of Engineering and Innovative Technology Development, 1996, B.S., M.S., Ph.D. (UAB), Vibrations; Systems Engineering; Finite Elements Method
Myers, Gregory School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Instructor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2000, BS (Auburn University), MS (UAB)., Computer methods in engineering; Programming; Internet of Things.
Nabors, L. Burt School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Neurology, 2000, MS (University of Tennessee Medical Science Center), Brain tumor treatment and research program
Nakada, Yuji School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2020, BS (Institute of Himeji Technology), PhD (Osaka University), Cardiac regeneration research
Nakhmani, Arie School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2013, BS, MS, PhD (Technion- Israel Institute of Technology), Biomedical signal analysis, machine learning, computer vision, systems and control, neuroengineering
Nazari, Rouzbeh School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Associate Professor of Civil, Construction and Environmental Engineering, 2019, BS (Isfahan University of Technology), ME (City College of New York), MS, PhD (City University of New York), Environmental engineering, water resources, coastal resiliency
Nichols, Robert H. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Research Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2002, BS (Mississippi State University), MS, PhD (University of Tennessee), Propulsion, computational fluid dynamics, turbulence modeling
Ning, Haibin School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2010, BE (Central South University), MS (Guangxi University), PhD (UAB), Polymer matrix composites, metal matrix composites, physical metallurgy, engineering plastics, design, modeling, and prototyping
Niwa, Minae School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurobiology, 2019, BS (Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Sciences), PhD (Nagoya University), Psychosocial stress on brain maturation, function, and behavior.
Peters, Robert W. School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2001, BS (Northwestern University), MS, PhD (Iowa State University), PE (IN, IL), Environmental engineering, water and wastewater treatment, hazardous waste treatment
Pillay, Selvum School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2007, Bach (Durban University of Technology), MSME (Florida AM), PhD (UAB), Polymer matrix composites, manufacturing and processing, design for manufacture, sustainable materials and manufacturing; RD to commercialization
Pogwizd, Steven School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Cardiovascular Disease, 2008, MD (Washington University, St. Louis), Medicine, Physiology and Biophysics
Pollard, Andrew School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 1996, BSE, MSE, PhD (Duke University, Cardiac electrophysiology, computer simulations and modeling of electrical signals of the heart
Robbin, Michelle School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology, 2003, BS (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), MS (University of Minnesota), MD (Mayo Medical School), Hemodialysis patient ultrasound, ultrasound contrast agents and vascular ultrasound
Rogers, Jack M. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 1994, BS, MS, PhD (University of California-San Diego, Cardiac electrophysiology, computer simulations, signal analysis of cardiac arrythmias Rosa-Garrido, Manuel School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2022, BS (University of Jaen), BS (University of Grenada), PhD (University of Cantabria), Epigenetics, chromatin structure, heart disease
Rowe, Glenn C. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Medicine, 2014, BS (Brandeis University), MS, PhD (Yale University)., Transcriptional regulation; mitochondrial metabolism; exercise physiology. Russo-
Samal, Juhi School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2024, BTech (College of Engineering and Technology), MTech (Indian Institute of Technology), PhD (National University of Ireland), Glycans, brain disorders, central nervous system, biomaterials
Saxena, Nitesh College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Professor of Computer Science; MS Cyber Security Program Co-Director, 2011, B.S. (IIT Kharagpur, India), M.S., Ph.D. (California-Irvine)
Scripa, Rosalia School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2017, BS (Alfred), MS (Pennsylvania State University), PhD (Florida State University), PE (AL, Structure and properties of glass and ceramics, semiconductor crystal growth, electronic and magnetic materials, growth and characterization of II-VI semiconducting compounds
Segrest, Jere School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, 1987, MD (Vanderbilt University), Plasma lipoprotein structure and function
Sethu, Palaniappan School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Medicine and Biomedical Engineering, 2013, BTech (PSG College of Technology), MEng, MS, PhD (University of Michigan), Microfluidic cellular and molecular analysis, physiologically relevant models of cardiac and vascular tissue, nanotechnology based approaches to study sub-cellular signaling Sewell-Loftin, Mary K. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2020, BS, MS (University of Alabama), PhD (Vanderbilt University), Tumor microenvironment, 3D tissue engineering, biomechanical behaviors of cancer cells
Sherif, Muhammad M. College of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Assistant Professor of Civil, Contstruction, and Environmental Engineering, 2019, MS (United Arab Emirates University), MS (Carnegie Mellon University), PhD (University of Virginia), Structural analysis and modeling, innovative materials, machine learning
Sicking, Dean L. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2012, BS, MS, PhD (Texas AM), Crashworthiness design, sports safety equipment, computational mechanics
Sisiopiku, Virginia P. School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2002, BS (Aristotelian University of Thessaloniki), MS, PhD (University of Illinois-Chicago), Traffic operations, intelligent transportation systems, sustainable transportation modes, human factors
Smith, Rachel June School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2022, BS (University of
Tennessee, Knoxville), MS, PhD (University of California-Irvine)., Dynamical network modeling, biomedical signal processing, system theory, neural stimulation, computational modeling in epilepsy, neuroengineering
Smith, William M. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering, 1994, B.S. (Oglethorpe), Ph.D. (Duke)
Song, Chen School of Business Department of Accounting and Finance, Senior Instructor of Accounting, 2013, BS (Beijing Information Technology Institute), MA (Virginia Tech)
Song, Yuhua School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2006, BS (Jilin University of Technology), MS (Harbin University of Science and Technology), PhD (Harbin Institute of Technology), Novel therapeutic drug identification, drug repurposing, biomolecular interactions, integrated multiscale computational modeling and experimental study, Alzheimer’s disease, breast cancer, regenerative medicine
Soorappan, Rajasekaran N School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Molecular and Cellular Pathology, MSc, MPhil, PhD (University of Madras), Transcriptional regulations; Redox signaling; Proteotoxic cardiac and brain diseases; Aging; Stem cells; Muscle and cardiac regeneration.
Sorace, Anna School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2019, BS (Mississippi State University), MS, PhD (UAB), Cancer imaging, drug delivery, tumor microenvironment, precision oncology
Stewart, Katherine M.E. School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2019, BS (Wilfrid Laurier University), MS, PhD (University of Waterloo), Synthesis and modification of polymeric materials
Sullivan, Andrew School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs, Associate Professor of
Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2009, BS (University of Pennsylvania), MS (UAB), PE (AL), Transportation Engineering, Traffic Operations
Talley, George School of Engineering Department of Civil Engineering, Adjunct Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2014, BS (Auburn University), MS (UAB), PE (AL), Construction management; Project management
Tanik, Murat M. School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1998, BS (Middle East Technical University), MSC, PhD (Texas AM), Software systems engineering, quantum information theory 38 Faculty
Thomas, Vinoy School of Engineering Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2007, BS, MS (University of Kerala), PhD (Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences Technology), Polymeric biomaterials processing, 3D printed/bioprinted scaffolds for tissue engineering, nanomaterials and nanoparticles for therapeutic applications, plasma materials synthesis and surface modification, thermal characterization
Tian, Qing College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, 2024, B.Eng. (Yanshan, China), M.Eng., Ph.D. (McGill, Canada)
Tyler, Jamie School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2022, BS, PhD (UAB), Neuroengineering, neurotechnology, physical medicine and rehabilitation
Uddin, Nasim School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Professor of Civil, Construction and Environmental Engineering, 2001, BS (University of Engineering and Technology), MS (University of Oklahoma-Norman), PhD (University at Buffalo), PE (NY), Structural
Engineering, Wind and Seismic Loads, Bridge Design
Unan, Mahmut College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, 2018, B.S. (Ege, Turkey), M.S., Ph.D. (University of Houston)
Unnikrishnan, Avinash School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Chair and Fouad H. Fouad Endowed Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2023, BS, (Indian Institute of Technology Madras), MS (Vanderbilt University), PhD (University of Texas at Austin), Transportation and freight network analysis, transportation planning, data analysis, optimization and simulation
Vantsevich, Vladimir V. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Adjunct Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2012, DipEng, PhD (Belarusian National Technical University), DSc. (State Supreme Attestation Board, Moscow), Mechatronic systems design, modeling and control, manned/unmanned ground vehicle dynamics and design, dynamics and design of robotic manipulators
Vaughn, Gregg L. School of Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1979, BS, ME, PhD (University of Alabama), PE (AL), Digital Communication, Image Processing, Radiation Effects
Velu, Sadanandan College of Arts and Sciences Department of Chemistry, Professor of Chemistry, 2002, B.Sc., M.Sc. (Calicut, India), Ph.D. (Madras, India) Vendrell Llopis, Nuria School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2024, BS, MS (Universitat Politecnica de Valencia), PhD (KU Leuven), Neuroprosthetics, brain-machine interface, neural stimulation, neuroengineering, learning Ver Hoef, Lawrence School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Neurobiology, 2004, MD (Wake Forest University School of Medicine), Clinical neurophysiology/ neuroimaging and magnetoencephalography
Wagner, Amber College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, 2023, B.S., M.S. (Kennesaw State), Ph.D. (Alabama)
Waldron, Christopher School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Associate Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2008, BS (Drexel University), MS, PhD (Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University), PE (PA), Structural engineering, bridge design, engineering mechanics 40 Faculty
Walker, Harrison School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Neurology, 2006, BH (Birmingham-Southern College), MD (UAB), Deep brain stimulation for the management of Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders
Wallace, Diana G. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Instructor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2019, BS (Auburn University), MS (UAB), Engineering communications and entrepreneurship
Walsh, Peter M. School of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering, Research Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2002, BS (Robert College), MA (Wesleyan University), PhD (Cornell University), Carbon dioxide sequestration, combustion in industrial furnaces and electric utility boilers, control of air pollutant emissions from combustion
Wang, Tianyang College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, 2023, B.S., MS (Jilin, China), Ph.D. (Southern Illinois University)
Wang, Yajing School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Vice Chair for Research and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2022, MS, MD (Shanxi Medical University), PhD (Shanghai Jiao Tong University), Interorgan/cell-cell communication, heart failure, microcirculation, endocrinology, diabetic cardiomyopathy
Wick, Timothy M. School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2005, BS (University of Colorado at Boulder), PhD (Rice University), Tissue engineering and regenerative medicine, bioreactor design, drug delivery, engineering design, engineering innovation
Willey, Christopher School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiation Oncology, 2008, MD/PhD (Medical University of South Carolina), Kinase driven signal transduction cascades in a spectrum of biological systems, bioinformatics for kinomics and personalized medicine, systems biology approaches in glioblastoma multiforme
Yang, Junjie, School of Engineering Department of BIomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2018, B.S. (Qingdao University), M.S. (Second Military Medical University), Ph.D. (Osaka University), Biology and therapeutic uses of extracellular vesicles
Ye, Lei School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2022, MD (Shanghai Medical University), PhD (National University of Singapore), Cardiac tissue engineering, stem cell biology, gene and cell therapy, Type 2 diabetes
Zech, Wesley C. School of Engineering Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2019, BS, ME, PhD (University at Buffalo), Construction management, construction safety, erosion and sediment control
Zhang, Chengcui College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Professor and Graduate Program Director of Computer Science, 2004, B.S., M.S. (Zhejiang, China), Ph.D. (Florida International)
Zhang, Jianyi (Jay) School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Chair of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Medicine and Biomedical Engineering, T Michael and Gilliam Goodrich Endowed Chair of Engineering Leadership, 2015, MS (Tufts University), MD (Shanghai Medical University), PhD (University of Minnesota), Cardiac tissue engineering, NMR imaging, heart failure
Zhang, Xiaoni School of Business Department of Management Information Systems, Professor of Information Systems, 2022, B.S. (Hebei University of Engineering), M.B.A. (Huron University), Ph.D. (University of North Texas)
Zhao, Jianli School of Engineering Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2022, MS (Shanxi Medical University), USMLE step1 400 topics and pre-test training, aging-related heart and brain disease
Zheng, Yuliang College of Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science, Professor and Chair of Computer Science, 2015, B.S. (Nanjing, China), M.S., Ph.D. (Yokohama - Japan)
Zhou, Yang School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2019, BS (Fudan University in China), PhD (Chinese Academy of Sciences), Cardiac reprogramming, heart regeneration, stem cells, epigenetics
Zhou, Yong School of Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
