Abrams, Marshall College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Philosophy, Associate Professor of Philosophy, 2007,
A.B. (California-Davis), Ph.D. (Chicago)
Accetta, Valerie College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Associate Professor, Head of Musical Theatre,
2013, B.A. (Otterbein), M.F.A. (Virginia Commonwealth)
Agresti, David G. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Professor Emeritus of Physics, 1969, B.S. (Ohio
State), M.S., Ph.D. (Caltech), Astrophysics; condensed matter physics
Akanfe, Oluwafemi School of Business
Department of Management Information Systems, Assistant Professor
of Information Systems, 2023, B.S. (Obafemi Awolowo University), M.S.
(Texas AM University), Ph.D. (University of Texas at San Antonio)
Alexander, J. Iwan School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Dean Emeritus of Engineering, Professor
Emeritus of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2013, BSc
(University College Swansea), PhD (United World College of the
Atlantic), PhD (Washington State University)
Alford, Aaron College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Instructor, 2020, B.S., M.S., Ph.D. (UAB)
Allgood, Ashleigh School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Instructor, 2020, MPH,
MBA (UAB)
Allison, Kelly College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre , Professor of Theatre; Chair, Department of
Theatre, 1998, B.F.A. (Stephens), M.F.A. (Minnesota)
Alspach, Jennie School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2014, B.S.N., M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Amsbary, Jonathan H. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Professor, 1988, B.A. (New
Mexico), M.A., Ph.D. (Indiana)
Amsler, Charles D. Jr. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Professor of Biology, 1994, B.A (Duke), M.S.
(North Carolina-Wilmington), Ph.D. (California-Santa Barbara), Marine
Ecophysiology, Chemical Ecology, and Polar Biology
Amthor, Franklin R. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, 1984,
B.S. (Cornell), Ph.D. (Duke)
Anderson de la Torre, M. Antonia, College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor of
Spanish,, 2019,, B.A. (Universidad de Los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia),
M.A. (CEU San Pablo, Madrid, Spain), Ph.D. (Nebraska)
Andrews, J. Barry School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Professor Emeritus
of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 1976, B.S. (UAB), M.E.,
PhD. (Florida), P.E. (Alabama), Polymer and Metal Matrix Composites,
Solidification, Physical Metalurgy
Angus, Robert A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Professor Emeritus of Biology, 1978, B.S.
(Wisconsin), Ph.D. (Connecticut), Aquatic Toxicology
Appavoo, Kannatassen "Krishen" College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Assistant Professor of Physics, 2016, B.A.
(Berea College), Ph.D. (Vanderbilt), Ultrafast optical microscopy;
Dielectric metamaterials and plasmonics; Phase-change memory;
Hybrid functional nanomaterials for energy-harvesting and sensing
technologies; Nonlinear optics
Armstrong, Nicole School of Public Health
Department of Epidemiology, Assistant Professor, 2019, Ph.D. (East
Carolina), Interdisciplinary biological sciences
Arribas, Julian College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Professor and
Chair, 2015, BS (Universidad Pontificia - Spain), ABD (Universidad de
Salamanca), M.A., Ph.D. (Michigan)
Ashe, Jr., Timothy College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor
of Spanish Linguistics, 2023, B.A. (Illinois at Urbana-Champaign), M.A.
(DePaul), Ph.D. (Arizona State)
Ashley, Kristin School of Nursing
Instructor, 2019, B.S.N. (Tuskegee), M.S.N., Ph.D. (UAB)
Ashour, Samar School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Assistant Professor of Finance
2020, 2017, BA, MBA (Tanta University, Egypt), PhD (University of
Texas at Arlington)
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 9
Aslibekyan, Stella School of Public Health
Department of Public Health, Associate Professor, 2021, PhD (Brown
University), Genetic Epidemiology
Athienitis, Maria School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Instructor of Accounting, 2019,
BA (University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg), MAc (UAB)
Aula, Mercy School of Public Health
Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Assistant Professor,
2022, Ph.D., M.S. (East Tennessee State University), Ergonomic
risk factor assessment in migrant and seasonal farmworkers. Use of
surface electromyography (sEMG) for ergonomic assessments. Health
disparities and co-morbidity assessment. Community-based participatory
research
Austad, Steven College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Protective Life Endowed Chair in Healthy Aging
Research, Distinguished Professor of Biology, 2014, B.A. (UCLA),
B.A. (California State-Northridge), Ph.D. (Purdue), Biology of Aging,
Evolution, Scientific Communication
Ayers, Douglas J. School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Associate
Professor of Marketing and Industrial Distribution, 1999, B.S., M.B.A.
(University of Tennessee), Ph.D. (University of Kentucky)
Bach, Rebecca Ann College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English and Director of Graduate
Studies, 1994, B.A., M.A., Ph.D. (Pennsylvania), Shakespeare,
Renaissance Drama, Animal Studies
Bacha, Jeffrey College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English and Director of
Internships, 2012, B.A. (University of Michigan-Flint), M.A. (Georgia
State University), Ph.D. (Purdue), Rhetoric and Composition,
Professional and Technical Communication
Baer, Andrew College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Associate Professor of History, 2016, B.A.
(Florida), M.A. (Chicago), Ph.D. (Northwestern)
Baker, Danielle School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2011, B.S.N., M.S.N. (Jacksonville State) D.N.P
(UAB)
Baker, Elizabeth H. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Associate Professor of Sociology, 2012, B.A.,
M.A. (Bowling Green), Ph.D. (Pennsylvania State)
Ball, Karlene K. College of Arts and
Sciences
10 Faculty
Department of Psychology, University Professor, Director, Center for
Research in Applied Gerontology; Professor of Psychology, Associate
Director, Comprehensive Center for Healthy Aging, 1996, B.A. (Indiana),
M.S., Ph.D. (Northwestern)
Ballmann, Chris School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Associate Professor of Kinesiology,
2023, B.S. (Auburn University), M.Ed. (Auburn University), Ph.D.
(Auburn University)
Banas, Paulina College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Arts Art History, Assistant Professor of Art History,
2022, B.A., M.A. (Sorbonne Université-Paris-IV), Ph.D. (Binghamton
University)
Banaszak Holl, Mark M. School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Dean for
Research, Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2022,
BS (University of Chicago), PhD (Cornell), Structure and properties of
biological materials; nanotechnology for drug and gene delivery, polymer
composites, and sustainable polymer science and engineering.
Barrett, Doug College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor of Art, 2008, B.F.A.
(Central Florida), M.F.A. (Florida), Graphic Design, Typography, Visual
Culture, Designer as Author, Design Fiction, Japan
Basilico, David Anthony College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English; Director,
Linguistics and Honors, 1993, B.A. (Brown), Ph.D. (Arizona), Linguistic
Theory, Syntax and Semantics, Cognitive Science
Baulos, Doug College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor of Art, 2003, B.F.A.
(UAB), M.F.A. (New Orleans), Drawing, Book Arts, Medical Scientific
Illustration
Beard, Craig W. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Associate Librarian, Reference Services,
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 1990, B.A. (Harding), M.A.R. (Harding
Graduate School of Religion), M.L.S. (Florida State)
Becker, Brooke A. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Senior Assistant Librarian, Reference
Services, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 2003, B.A. (Samford), M.L.I.S.
(Alabama)
Bellis, Peter College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English Emeritus, 2007, B.A.
(Amherst), M.A. (Texas-Austin), M.A., Ph.D. (Johns Hopkins), American
Literature
Bello, Marissa School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Instructor of Kinesiology, 2022, B.S.
(Brandeis University), M.S. (Rutgers), Ph.D. (Mississippi State), Sport
and Human Performance; Exercise Endocrinology; Sports Nutrition
Bentley, J. Nicole School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, 2018,
BS (University of Georgia, Athens), MD (Medical College of Georgia),
Functional and movement disorders
Berg, Kelly School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Assistant Professor, 2022, RDN, MS,
(Illinois State)
Bertrand, Fred (Ted) School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Professor Program
Director of Biomedical Sciences Program Director, 2014, Ph.D. (UAB)
Bhat, Krishna School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2024,
MD (VCM College of Medicine), PhD (Memorial University School
of Medicine), Molecular genetics of synaptic connectivity and axon
guidance
Bi, Wenli College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Assistant Professor of Physics, 2019, BS
(Xi'an Jiaotong University), MS (Drexel), PhD (Washington St. Louis),
Magnetism and superconductivity in strongly correlated materials;
experimental high-pressure physics; synchrotron x-ray spectroscopy;
Mossbauer spectroscopy and inelastic x-ray scattering
Biga, Chris F. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Teaching Associate Professor of Sociology,
2012, B.A. (Nebraska), M.A. (New Orleans), Ph.D. (Washington State)
Biga, Peggy College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor of Biology, 2012, B.S., M.S.
(Angelo State), Ph.D. (Idaho), Physiology and Developmental Biology
Blankenship, Brandon College of Arts and
Sciences
Criminal Justice, Teaching Assistant Professor, 2001, B.A. (UAB), J.D.
(Thomas Goode Jones School of Law), Legal Studies, Pre-Law, Criminal
Law
Blanton, Robert G. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Professor and
Chair, 2014, B.A. (North Carolina State), M.A., Ph.D. (South Carolina)
Blanton, Shannon L. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Professor,
Dean, Honors College, 2014, B.A. (Georgia College), M.A. (Georgia),
Ph.D. (South Carolina)
Blokh, Alexander College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1992, Ph.D.
(Kharkov State), Dynamical Systems
Bordelon, Curry School of Nursing
Associate Professor of Nursing, 2017, B.S.N. (Northwestern State
University), M.S.N. (Emory), D.N.P. (UAB)
Bowers, Deborah School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2017, B.S.N., M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Boyar, Scott L. School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Professor of Management, 2009, B.S. (Keene State College),
M.B.A. (University of San Diego), Ph.D. (Mississippi State University)
Brainard, Lindsay College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Philosophy, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, 2020, B.A
(College of Wooster), M.Phil (Cambridge University), M.A. (UNC Chapel
Hill), Ph.D. (UNC Chapel Hill)
Brande, Scott College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Associate Professor of Chemistry, 1979, B.S.
(Rochester), M.S. (California Institute of Technology), Ph.D. (SUNY-
Stony Brook)
Brandwein, Craig College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Assistant Professor of Music, 2016, B.S., M.A.
(Long Island)
Braziel, James College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2010, B.A.
(Georgia), M.F.A (Bowling Green State), Creative Writing, Fiction
Bria, Victoria School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2017, B.S.N., M.S.N. (Samford)
Brooker, E College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Teaching Assistant Professor of Sociology,
2021, B.A. (Haverford College), M.P. A. (Washington State), Ph.D.
(California Irvine)
Brooks, Sarah School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2023, B.S.N, M.S.N (UAB), M.S.N. (UNA)
Brott, Brigitta School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Cardiovascular
Disease, 2000, BS (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), MD (Loyola
University-Chicago), Angiogenesis, cardiac angioplasty, coronary artery
disease, cardiac catheterization, interventional cardiology and stents
Brown, Christopher S. College of Arts and
Sciences
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 11
Department of Biology, Professor of Biology (and UAB Vice President
for Research), 2017, B.S. (UNC-Chapel Hill), M.S., Ph.D. (NC State
University), Plant Biology and Plant Physiology
Brown, Michelle School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Associate Professor
and Director, Healthcare Simulation Program, 2008, Ph.D. (UAB)
Browning, Jillian Marie College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Assistant Professor of Art, BS (Central
Florida), M.F.A. (Florida State), Photography
Bruce, Rachel School of Nursing
Instructor, 2017, B.S.N. (Jacksonville), M.S.N., M.P.H. (UAB)
Bruhn, Maury Young College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor
of French, 2023, B.A. (Seattle University), M.A., Ph.D. (North Carolina-
Chapel Hill)
Bumpus, Jessica School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2017, M.S.N., Ph.D. (UAB)
Bunn, Michele School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Assistant
Professor of Marketing, 2013, PhD (UNC: Chapel Hill)
Burke, Donald S. School of Engineering
Department of Advanced Safety Engineering and Management,
Associate Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2013,
B.S., Ph.D. (UAB), Safety; Safety engineering; Project management
Burns, Corey College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Instructor, 2022, B.S. (Iowa), Ph.D. (Texas
AM)
Burns, Jonathan College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, 2021, B.S.
(MidAmerica Nazarene), Ph.D. (Texas AM)
Butcher, Dan College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Instructor of English, 2001, B.A. (Mississippi),
M.L.I.S., M.A. (LSU), Literature, Composition
Byrd, Elizabeth School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2021, B.S.N., M.S.N., Ph.D. (UAB)
Byrd, Jim School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Associate Professor of
Accounting, 2013, B.S. (Auburn), M.B.A. (Georgia State), M.A., Ph.D.
(UAB), CPA, CHFP
Cain, Cindy L College of Arts and
Sciences
12 Faculty
Department of Sociology, Associate Professor of Sociology, 2018, B.A.
(Indiana), M.A., Ph.D. (Arizona)
Callahan, Dale School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Associate Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2000, B.E.E. (Auburn),
M.B.A. (Auburn-Montgomery), M.S.E.E. (UAB), Ph.D. (Alabama), P.E.
(Alabama), Technology leadership and innovation; Entrepreneurship;
Internet of Things; Wireless communications.
Camata, Renato College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Associate Professor of Physics, 2000, B.S.
(University of São Paulo), M.S., Ph.D. (Caltech), Laser and plasma
synthesis of quantum electronic materials; critical phenomena in
2D systems; crystal growth and properties of semiconducting and
superconducting thin film materials
Cannon, Joseph J. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Assistant Professor of Theatre, 2004, B.A.
(UAB), M.F.A. (Arizona)
Cardenas, Carlos E. School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology,
2021, BS (University of Alabama in Huntsville), MS (East Carolina
University), PhD (University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center),
Medical physics
Carlito, Delores Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Associate Librarian, References Services,
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 2001, B.A. (UAB), M.A., M.Ed. (UAB), M.L.I.S.
(Alabama)
Carpenter, Randy School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, M.S.H.I., Adjunct Professor (Health
Services Administration)
Carroll, Mary Jacque College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, Assistant Professor and Director of Field
Education, 2017, B.S. (Wofford College), M.S.W. (South Carolina)
Cates, Amy College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Instructor of English, 2017, B.A. (Auburn), M.A.
(Alabama), M.A. (Montevallo), Composition, Developmental Writing
Literature
Catledge, Shane A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Associate Professor of Physics, 2004, B.S.
(California State –Sacramento), Ph.D. (UAB), Microwave plasma
synthesis of novel superhard materials, including high-entropy materials.
Ultra-high-temperature ceramics with plasma-enhanced structural,
mechanical, and oxidation-resistant properties. Investigation of plasma-
enhanced reaction mechanisms.
Cato, Shelly College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Assistant Professor of English, 2014, B.A.
(Mississippi), M.A. (UAB), Composition, Developmental Writing,
Literature, Creative Writing
Causey, Cora School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of Early
Childhood Education, 2021, B.A. (Birmingham Southern), M.A., Ph.D.
(UAB)
Cedillo, Yenni School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Assistant Professor, 2022, PhD
(UAB), Socio-environmental factors, acculturation process, stress and
body composition.
Celaya, Leandra School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Assistant Professor,
2008, MSc (University of Salford)
Cendoma, Phil School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Assistant Professor,
2022, MSHA-MBA (UAB)
Chambless, Krista College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Associate Professor of
Spanish, 2006, B.A., M.A., Ph.D. (Alabama)
Chambliss, Jessica School of Public Health
Department of Health Policy Organization, Assistant Professor and
Assistant Dean for Public Health Practice, 2017, PhD (UAB), MPH
(Texas-Houston), Public health practice and systems, community health,
program evaluation, community engagement and outreach, workforce
development, maternal and child health (MCH), health policy, and health
equity
Chan, David College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Philosophy, Professor of Philosophy, 2019, B.A. (First
Class Honors, University of Melbourne, Australia), M.A. (National
University of Singapore), Ph.D. (Stanford University)
Chandler, Malysa School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Clinical Instructor of
Secondary Education, 2019, B.S. (Miles College), M.Ed. (ASU), M.A.
(UAB)
Chapman, Alison College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English, 2000, B.A. (Davidson),
M.A., Ph.D. (Pennsylvania), Milton, Renaissance Poetry and Prose
Chatham, Amy H. School of Public Health
Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Assistant Professor and
Assistant Dean of Undergraduate Education, 2021, Ph.D., M.S.P.H.
(UAB), Community Engagement, health education and promotion,
environmental health policy, WASH, rural health focusing on the Black
Belt region, and educational equity and accessibility.
Chawla, Krishan Kumar School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Professor Emeritus of
Materials Science and Engineering, 1998, B.S. (Banaras Hindu, India),
M.S., Ph.D. (Illinois, Urbana-Champaign), Metal, Ceramic, and Polymer
Matrix Composite Materials; Fibers; Foams
Chen, Cheng-Chien College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Associate Professor of Physics, 2016,
B.S. (National Tsing-Hua University), Ph.D. (Stanford University),
condensed matter theory; scientific supercomputing; big data
analytics; photon-based spectroscopies; non-equilibrium dynamics and
emergent phenomena in strongly correlated systems; unconventional
superconductors; quantum magnets; interacting topological states of
matter
Chen, Dongquan School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, Ph.D., Research Assistant Professor
(Health Services Administration)
Chen, Jieyang College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer
Science, 2023, B.E. (Beijing University of Technology), M.S., Ph.D.
(University of California)
Childs, Gwendolyn School of Nursing
Associate Professor; Associate Dean for Undergraduate and
Prelicensure Programs, 2007, B.S.N. (Lander Univ.), M.S.N. (Medical
College of Georgia), Ph.D. (USC)
Cho, Won College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Associate Professor of Music, 2011, B.M.
(Manhattan), M.M. (Boston), D.M.A. (Memphis)
Cinnella, Pasquale School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Professor of Mechanical and
Materials Engineering, 2017, B.S. (University of Bari, Italy), Ph.D.
(Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University), Dynamics, fluid
dynamics, heat transfer
Clabough, Jeremiah School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Associate Professor of
Secondary Education, 2012, B.A. (Maryville College), M.S., Ph.D.
(Tennessee)
Clark, Kathleen School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Chair and Professor of
Secondary Education, 2023, B.A., M.A.T. (West Florida), Ph.D.
(University of Maryland, College Park)
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 13
Claus, Nancy School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2010, B.S. (UAB), A.D. (Wallace State
Community College), B.S.N. (Georgia Southern), M.S.N. (Jacksonville
State), D.N.P. (UAB)
Clavell, Alicia School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Senior Instructor of Business Communications, 2011, B.A.
(Berry College), M.A. (UAB)
Clay, Olivio College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor of Psychology, Director,
Developmental Psychology Doctoral Program, 2007, B.S., M.A., Ph.D.
(UAB)
Clements, Jill Hamilton College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2016, B.A.
(Truman State), M.A. (Western Michigan), Ph.D (Illinois), Medieval
Literature and Culture, History of the English Language
Cobb, Cassandra School of Nursing
Instructor, 2020, B.S.N., M.S.N (UAB)
Cochran, John Brock College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Instructor of Spanish,
2012, B.A. (Auburn), M.A. (North Carolina in Charlotte)
Coiner, Sarah School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2020, B.S.N. (UA), M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Coles, Karen M. School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 1993, B.S.N. (Michigan State), M.S.N., D.N.P.
(UAB)
Collins, Robert College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English Emeritus, 1980, AB (Xavier
University), MA, PhD (Ohio State), Creative Writing, Poetry
Connor, David A. School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Chair and Professor
Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1978, BEE. MS,
PhD (Georgia Institute of Technology), Engineering, design leadership
Cook, Edwin W. III College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Associate Professor of Psychology,
Director, Medical/Clinical Psychology Doctoral Program, 1986, B.S.
(Pennsylvania), M.S., Ph.D. (Wisconsin)
Cooper, Elizabeth School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Instructor of
Business, 2010, MBA (University of South Alabama)
Copes, J. Heith College of Arts and
Sciences
14 Faculty
Department of Criminal Justice, Distinguished Professor and Director
of Criminal Justice Honors, 2001, B.S. (Southwestern Louisiana), M.A.,
Ph.D., (Tennessee), Qualitative Methods, Criminal Decision Making,
Visual Criminology
Copham, Craig A. School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 1996,
BS, MC (UAB), PE (AL), Structural design; Engineering materials
Corbetta, Renato College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Associate
Professor and International Studies Director, 2005, B.A., M.A. (Portland
State), Ph.D. (Arizona)
Corcoran, Jessica School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2020, B.S.N., M.S.N., Ph.D (UAB)
Corcoran, Stephanie School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of School
of Psychometry and School Psychology, 2020, B.A., M.A., Ed.S., Ph.D.
(Alabama), NCSP
Corvey, Kathryn School of Public Health
Department of Health Policy and Organization, Assistant Professor,
2021, MPH, DrPH (UAB), Health insurance coverage and adequacy,
health care utilization and costs, children with special health care needs,
maternal and child health (MCH), public health systems and practice,
public health communication
Costa, Kaue Machado College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Assistant Professor of Psychology, 2024,
B.S. (Federal University of Pará, Brazil). M.Sc. (University of São Paulo,
Brazil), Ph.D. (Goethe University, Germany)
Cotton, Halley College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Instructor of English, 2022, B.A., M.A. (UAB),
Composition, Literature, Creative Writing
Cracco, Derek A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor of Art, 1999, B.F.A.
(Louisiana State), M.F.A. (Syracuse), Printmaking, Computer graphics,
Color Theory
Crawley, Diane School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Instructor of
Legal Studies, 2013, JD (Samford University)
Crooks, Elizabeth School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2011, B.S.N. (Catholic University of America),
M.S.N. (Case Western Reserve), D.N.P. (UAB)
Cross, John School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Visiting Instructor, UABTeach,
2021, B.S., M.S. (UAB), M.S. (Samford)
Crossland, William School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing , 2021, B.S.N. (Central Florida), M.S.N., D.N.P.
(UAB)
Crowe, Michael College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor of Psychology, Assistant Director
of the Center for Research on Applied Gerontology, 2006, B.S. (Illinois),
M.A., Ph.D. (Southern California)
Cullen, Clark College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Teaching Associate Professor of Sociology,
2009, B.A. (Mississippi); M.A., Ph.D. (UAB)
Culver, Sarah E. School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Associate
Professor of Economics, 1993, B.S., M.A., Ph.D. (Houston)
Cummings, Cathleen A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor of Art History, 2006,
B.A. (Mills College), M.A. (University of London), M.A. and Ph.D. (Ohio
State), South Asian Art
Cusic, Anne M. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor Emerita of Biology,
1988, B.S. (UAB), M.S. (Samford), Ph.D. (UAB), General Biology and
Reproductive Biology
Dagley, Amy School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Associate Professor of Educational
Leadership, 2016, B.A., M.A. (University of Alaska Southeast), Ph.D.
(Alabama), School law, policy, finance, supervision and leadership
theory
Dale, Louis College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, 1973,
B.A. (Miles), M.S. (Atlanta), Ph.D. (Alabama), Ring Theory
Dallow, Jessica College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor of Art History,
2002, B.A. (San Diego), M.A., Ph.D. (North Carolina-Chapel Hill),
Contemporary Art, American Art
Daniel, Michael School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2022, B.S.N., Ph.D., (UAB)
Daniélou, Catherine F. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Associate Professor
of French; Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Arts
and Sciences, 1990, Licence-ès-Lettres, Maîtrise-ès-Lettres (Sorbonne),
M.A., Ph.D. (Michigan State)
DasGupta, Manabendra School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Associate
Professor of Economics, 1990, B.A., M.A. (Calcutta), M.A., Ph.D.
(Southern Methodist University)
Davis, Lizzy School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Assistant Professor and Program
Director, Dietitian Education Program Track, 2020, MS in Nutrition
Sciences Dietitian Education Track Director, PhD, RDN (UAB), Early
Care and Education Centers; Diet Quality Assessment; Community;
Teaching as Research; Mixed Methods
Davis, Ryan School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Associate Professor of Finance,
2016, BA, MS, PhD (University of Mississippi), MBA (UAB)
Dawson, Susan Packa School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Instructor and Director of
Operations, 2021, MS (University of Alabama)
Day, Rebekah School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2023, B.S.N. (Jacksonville State), M.S.N. (UAB)
DeCarlo, Thomas E. School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Professor
of Marketing and Distribution, 2007, B.S. (N. Carolina State University),
Ph.D. (University of Georgia)
Deitz, George School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Professor of
Marketing, 2023, PhD (University of Alabama)
DeLuca, Maria School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Associate Professor, 2008, PhD
(University of Calabria), Genetics of fat storage and innate immune
function, Obesity, Aging
Deutsch, Georg School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology (School
of Medicine), 1988, PhD, Cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging
Di Gangi, Paul School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Professor of Information Systems, 2013, B.S. (Quinnipiac
University), M.S. (George Washington University), Ph.D. (Florida State
University)
Dick, Tracey School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2021, B.S.N. (Auburn), M.S.N.
(Samford), Ph.D. (UAB)
Dluhy, Richard A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Professor and Chair, 2015, B.S. (Connecticut),
Ph.D. (Rutgers)
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 15
Dobbins, Allan C. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 1996, BSC (Dalhousie University), BSE, MSE,
PhD (McGill University), Human and machine vision, neural computation,
brain imaging, scientific visualization
Dobbs, Joel School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Senior Instructor, 2011, M.Sc. (UAB)
Dobias, Joshua College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Assistant Professor of Psychology, 2019,
B.S. (Northern Michigan ), M.A. ( New Hampshire), M.S.T., Ph.D.
Dolby, Greer College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Assistant Professor of Biology, 2022, B.A.
(Boston University), M.Sc. (UCLA), Ph.D. (UCLA),, Evolutionary
genomics, Earth-life evolution and complex systems, theory
Donaldson, Jonan School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of
Learning Design and Learning Sciences, , 2023, B.A., M.A. (Portland
State), M.S. (Western Oregon), Ph.D. (Drexel)
Dorsey, Amanda D. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, Assistant Professor, 2014, MSHI
(UAB)
Doughty, Teresa Taber School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Dean and Professor of
Special Education, 2023, BS (Auburn), MS, Ph.D. (Georgia State)
Downs, J. Crawford School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Ophthalmology
and Vision Sciences, 2012, BA, MA, MS, PhD (Tulane University),
Experimental and computational ocular biomechanics, intraocular
pressure and physiologic signal telemetry, and 3D histomorphometry
Downs, Lauren College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Anthropology, Assistant Professor, 2013, B.A. (North
Carolina), M.A., Ph.D. (Alabama)
Dowswell, Bo School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2000,
BS (Auburn University), MS, PhD (UAB), PE (AL), Structural steel
design, structural steel connections, structural stability
Drentea, Patricia College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Professor of Sociology, 1999, B.A.
(Wisconsin), M.A., Ph.D. (Ohio State)
Dunbar, Jessie College of Arts and
Sciences
16 Faculty
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2013, B.A.
(Clark Atlanta University), M.A. (Georgia), Ph.D. (Emory), Nineteenth
and Twentieth-Century African American Literature and Black Diaspora
Studies
Duran, Elizabeth College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Assistant Professor, 2023, B.A. (Florida
International), Ph.D. (UAB)
Dwivedi, Aparna College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Instructor of English, 2017, B.A., M.A. (Delhi),
M.A. (Illinois at Chicago), Composition, Developmental Writing, Literature
Earwood, Martha College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Teaching Assistant Professor and
Internship Coordinator, 2003, B.S., M.S. (Georgia State), Corrections,
Victimology, Restorative Justice, Experiential Learning.
Eber, Therrin J. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Assistant Professor of Theatre, 2023, B.A.
(Purdue University), M.A. (University of Alabama)
Eberhardt, Alan School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Chair of Education
and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 1991, B.S., M.S. (University
of Delaware), Ph.D. (Northwestern University), Solid Mechanics, Injury
Biomechanics, Biomedical Implants, Analytical and Numerical Methods
in Biomechanics
Edmonds, Christopher School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Professor of Accounting, 2013,
B.S. (Colorado State), M.B.A. (UAB), Ph.D. (Virginia Tech)
Edmonds, Jennifer School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Associate Professor of
Accounting, 2013, B.S. (Birmingham-Southern), M.Acc., Ph.D. (Virginia
Tech)
Edmonds, Lori M. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of English
as a Second Language Education, 2022, B.A., M.A., Ph.D. (Maryland
Baltimore County)
Edmonds, Mark School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Associate Professor of
Accounting, 2016, BS, MA (UAB), PhD (Southern Illinois)
Edwards, Griffin School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Professor of
Economics, 2013, PhD (Emory University)
Ellis, Cassandra College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2002, A.B.
(Syracuse), A.M., Ph.M, Ph.D. (Columbia), American Literature, African-
American Literature, Composition
Enlow, Margaret A School of Public Health
Department of Public Health, Instructor, 2018, MPH (UAB), Maternal
and Child Health, Public Health Data, Continuous Quality Improvement,
Home Visiting, DEIA
Erdmann, Mitzy College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, 2016, B.S.
(Loyola), M.S. (UAB), Ph.D. (UAB)
Ernest, James R. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Professor of Early Childhood
and Elementary Education, 2010, B.A. (The University of Exeter, Exeter,
England), M.A. (New Orleans), Ph.D. (UAB)
Ervin, Tiffany Brown Instructor, 2022, B.S.N. (Alabama), M.S.N., Ph.D. (UAB)
School of Nursing
Estes, Jr., Norman Robert School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Assistant Professor,
2015, Ph.D. (UAB)
Etheridge, Sherita School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2008, B.S.N. (UNA), M.S.N. (UAB)
Evans, Patrick College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Professor and Chair, 2015, B.M., B.M.E.
(Montevallo), M.M., D.M. (Florida State)
Evans, Paulette School of Education
Department of Curriculum Instruction, Clinical Instructor and UABTeach
Director, 2014, B.S., M.A., Ed.S., PhD (UAB)
Evans, Retta School of Education
Department of Human Studies , Professor of Community Health and
Human Services, 2003, B.S., (Fort Hays), M.S. (Northeastern), Ph.D.
(Arkansas), Health Education/ Adolescent and young adult health,
nutrition physical activity, body image, school health
Fambrough, R. Eugene College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Professor of Music, 2001, B.M. (Georgia), M.M.
(East Carolina), D.M.A. (Alabama)
Fast, Vladimir G. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 1997, BS, MS, PhD (Moscow Institute of Physics and
Technology), Optical imaging of electrical and ionic activity in the heart
mechanisms of cardiac arrhythmias and defibrillation
Fathallah-
Shaykh, Hassan
College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Applied Mathematics, Professor of Neurology;
Mathematics; Integrative, Developmental and Cell Biology; Biomedical,
Electrical, and Mechanical Engineering, 2008, M.D. (American Univ
of Beirut), Ph.D. (Illinois at Chicago), Mathematical Biology, Systems
biology of cancer, Dynamics of molecular networks, Biological rhythms
Fazio, Massimo A. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor
(Ophthalmology and Biomedical Engineering), 2007, M.S.E., Ph.D.
(University of Calabria, Italy), ocular tissue biomechanics with emphasis
on in-vivo mechanical quantification of the neural damage caused by
elevated intraocular pressure
Fedorov, Vladimir V. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Research Associate Professor of Physics,
2007, M.S. (Moscow Institute of Physics), Ph.D. (Russian Academy
of Science), Physical and mathematical science; coherent and laser
spectroscopic characterization of doped laser materials; solid-state
lasers; laser spectroscopy for molecular-sensing applications
Feldman, Dale S. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 1985, BS (Northwestern University), MS
(Dayton University), PhD (Clemson University), Biomaterials, Soft-tissue
biomechanics, Polymeric implants
Fernandez, Jose School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Professor, 2001, PhD (Pennsylvania
State System), Identification of genes contributing to racial differences in
obesity, diabetes, and cancer: the genetic admixture approach
Fiedler, Robin L. School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Instructor of Educational Psychology and
Research, 2008, B.S. (Edinboro), M.Ed. (Virginia Commonwealth), Ph.D.
(Auburn), Measurement, Educational Psychology, Educational Statistics
Fisher, Colleen College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, Associate Professor and Director of MSW
Program, 2018, B.A. (Central Michigan), M.S.W. (Michigan State), Ph.D.
(Washington University in St. Louis
Fisher, Gordon School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Professor of Kinesiology, 2012, B.S.
(Hillsdale), M.S. (Mississippi State), Ph.D. (Auburn), Postdoctoral
Fellow (UAB), Exercise Physiology; Exercise/Nutrition, Mitochondrial
Bioenergetics, Oxidative Stress, and Chronic Inflammation
Fiveash, John School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vice Chair and Professor of
Radiation Oncology, 2012, B.S. (University of Georgia), M.D. (Medical
College of Georgia), Clinical trials of novel therapeutics in combination
with radiation therapy, particularly in the treatment of brain and prostrate
tumors; treatment planning research and education IMRT and IGRT
Flammini, Steve School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, Credit Course Instructor (Health
Services Administration)
Flannery, Julie P. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of
Early Childhood and Elementary Education, 2021, B.A. (Birmingham
Southern), M.A., Ph.D. (UAB)
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 17
Foley, Robin D. School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Professor
of Materials Science and Engineering, 1990, BS, MS (University of
Illinois Urbana-Champaign), PhD (University of Wisconsin-Madison),
Materials Characterization, Physical Metallurgy, Metals Casting
Forbes, Laura School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Professor of Community Health and
Human Services, 2005, B.S. (Ball State), M.S. (Central Florida),
Ph.D. (South Carolina), Health education program planning and
administration / Youth and adult drug use prevention programs / Student
assistance programs/ Adolescent Mental Health/ Various college health
topics
Ford, Eric School of Public Health
Department of Health Policy and Organization, Professor, 2017, PhD
(UAB), Strategic management, health information technologies, value-
based programs, service integration and their combined effects on
performance (both financial and population health related)
Forman, Michele College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Assistant Professor/Director of Media Studies,
2003, B.A. (Harvard), M.A. (UAB)
Fouad, Fouad H. School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Chair and Professor Emeritus of Civil, Construction, and Environmental
Engineering, 1981, BS (Alexandria University), ME (University of Texas
at Austin), PhD (Texas AM), PE (AL, TX), Structural Engineering,
Reinforced Concrete, Concrete Materials
Fouad, Mona School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Professor and Senior Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, School
of Medicine, 1987, MD (Alexandria University, Egypt), MPH (UAB).,
Public health; Minority/Urban preventative medicine
Franks, Alan E. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Assistant Professor; Director,
Broadcasting, 2013, B.S. (UAB); MFDI (Sydney); MFA (Montana State)
Friday, R. David School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, M.S.H.I., Adjunct Instructor (Health
Services Administration)
Fu, Richard School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Associate Professor of Finance,
2006, Ph.D. (Georgia Institute of Technology)
Gainey, Denise College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Distinguished Professor in Music, 2002, B.M.E.
(Florida State), M.M. (North Texas), D.M.A. (Kentucky)
Gallups, Sarah School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2020, B.S.N., M.P.H. (UAB), Ph.D.
(University of Pittsburgh)
18 Faculty
Gamlin, Paul College of Joint Health
Sciences
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Professor of Vision
Sciences (School of Medicine), 1996, Ph.D. (State University of NY-
Stony Brook), Studies of the neural bases of vision eye movements
Gampher, J. Eric College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Assistant Professor of Psychology, 2008,
B.S. (Florida State), Ph.D. (UAB)
Gardner, Elizabeth A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Professor and Director of Master of
Science in Forensic Science, 2007, B.S. (Penn State), Ph.D. (Michigan
State), Drug Chemistry, Legal Highs, Gun Powder Residue, Laser
Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy, Pharmaceutical Spam
Gartin, Meredith School of Public Health
Department of Health Policy and Organization, Assistant Professor,
2019, PhD (Arizona State), Global health education and curriculum,
migration and health, climate change and health, cross-cultural health
research
Gawne, Timothy J. School of Optometry
Department of Vision Sciences, Professor of Vision Sciences, 1996,
BS (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), PhD (Uniformed Services
University Health Services), Information processing in the cerebral
cortex, Gamma-band brain activity and neurotransmitter metabolism in
schizophrenia, Visual cortical evoked potential
Geng, Baocheng College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer
Science, 2021, B.S. (Shanghai Jiao Tong University), 2021, Ph.D.
(Syracuse University)
George, Remo School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Assistant Professor,
2008, Ph.D. (UAB), Using Molecular Beacons for Detection and
Attenuation of Mycobacteria
Gere, Rich College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Professor of Art, Chair Department of
Art Art History, 2019, B.F.A. (University of Massachusetts), M.F.A.
(University of Tennessee), Print Media, drawing, mixed media,
installation
Gerke, Donald College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, Assistant Professor, 2023, B.S.W. (Seattle
University), M.S.W., Ph.D. (Washington University in St. Louis)
Gezon, Lisa College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Anthropology, Professor and Chair, 1989, B.A. (Albion
College), M.A., Ph.D. (Michigan)
Ghanta, Vithal K. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Professor Emerita of Biology, 1971, B.S. (G.C.W.
College), M.S. (Banaras Hinda), Ph.D. (Southern Illinois), Cancer
Immunology, Immunology, and Biology of Aging
Gibbons, Megan College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Assistant Professor of Biology, 2023, B. A.
Psychology (Emory), M.S. (Louisiana-Lafayette), Ph.D. (Louisiana-
Lafayette), Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, Behavioral Ecology
Gibbs, Victoria K. School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Associate Professor,
2011, PhD (UAB)
Gilray, Thomas College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer
Science, 2018, B.S. (Oregon), M.S., Ph.D. (Utah)
Giordano-
Mooga, Samantha
School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Assistant Professor,
2017, PhD (UAB)
Gladysz, Gary School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Adjunct Associate
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, 2017, BE (Youngstown
State University), MS (Ohio University), PhD (New Mexico Institute of
Mining and Technology), Materials Science and Engineering, Chemical
Engineering; Syntactic Foams
Goh, Samuel H. School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Information Systems, 2018, B.S.,
M.B.A. (University of Tennessee at Chattanooga), Ph.D (Florida State
University)
Golightly, Beverly School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, M.S.H.A., Credit Course Instructor
(Health Services Administration)
Goodman, Adam College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Assistant Professor of Psychology, 2023,
B.S. (Appalachian State University). M.S., Ph.D. (Auburn)
Gorman, C. Allen School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Management, 2021, B.A. (University of
Georgia), M.A. (University of Nebraska at Omaha), PhD. (University of
Tennessee)
Grant, Merida School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurobiology, 2012, BS (Temple University),
PhD (Duke University), Relationship between stress and depression,
voxel-based morphometry, functional MRI, measures of peripheral
physiology, endocrine function, cognition, and emotion
Graveline, Jeffrey D. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Associate Librarian, Reference Services,
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 2006, B.A. (Virginia Tech), M.L.I.S., J.D.
(Alabama)
Green, David G. School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Professor Emeritus
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1981, BS, MS (University of
Alabama in Huntsville), Collaborative systems, internet applications,
software engineering, engineering design
Greenstein, Claire, College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Assistant
Professor,, 2020,, B.A. (Furman), M.A., Ph.D. (North Carolina)
Griffin, John A. School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Research Assistant
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, 2011, B.S.Mt.E,
M.S.Mt.E. (UAB), Metals Casting, Testing and Characterization,
Nondestructive Evaluation
Griffin, O. Hayden College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Associate Professor, 2013, J.D.
( Richmond), Ph.D. (Florida), Corrections, Policy, Drugs and Society,
Law and Society
Griffith, Donna Herrin School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Executive in Residence,
2014, MSN
Grimes, Gary J. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, Ph.D., Professor (Electrical and
Computer Engineering)
Grimes, L. Kyle College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English, 1990, B.A. (Dartmouth),
M.A., Ph.D. (Illinois), Romantic Literature
Grostick, Sara S. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, M.A., Associate Professor (Health
Services Administration)
Grujic, Zoran College of Arts and
Sciences
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 19
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 2023,
Ph.D. (Indiana University), Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations,
Mathematical Fluid Dynamics
Grusenmeyer, Patrick A. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Associate Professor,
2017, ScD Public Health (Tulane University)
Grytz, Rafael School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Ophthalmology, 2012, MS, PhD (Ruhr-Universität Bochum), Connective
tissue growth and remodeling, multiscale finite element modeling,
multiphoton microscopy, optical coherence tomography, predictive
computational medical for precision medicine in ophthalmology
Guest, Kristi C. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Associate Professor of Psychology, 2003,
B.S., M.A., Ph.D. (UAB)
Gunnels, Ken School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Instructor of Information Systems, 2011, B.S. (UAB); M.B.A.
(Samford University); M.S., MIS, Ph.D. (University of Alabama)
Gunther-
Canada, Wendy A.
College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Professor
Emerita, 1992, B.A. (Utah), M.A., Ph.D. (Rutgers)
Guthrie, James Ronald College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Instructor of English, 2014, B.A., M.A. (UAB),
Composition, Developmental Writing, Literature
Hadley, Mark School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Professor
of Surgery; Professor of Marketing and Industrial Distribution; Spinal
Surgery and Medical Equipment and Supplies Distribution, 2008, B.A.
(Stanford University), M.D. (Albany Medical College)
Hafley, Sherrie School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2023, B.S. (Maryland), M.S.N. (UAB)
Hall, Cheryl D. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Assistant Professor of Theatre, 1989, B.A.
(Southern Illinois), M.F.A. (Arizona)
Hammack, Glenn G. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, O.D., M.S.H.I., Assistant Professor
(Health Services Administration)
Hamrick, Jennifer School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Assistant Professor of
Accounting, 2019, BS (Birmingham-Southern College), MAc (Auburn),
PhD (Kennesaw State University)
20 Faculty
Hansen, John School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Professor of
Marketing, 2009, B.S., M.B.A. (Troy), Ph.D. (University of Alabama)
Hara, Yoshiyuki College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor of
Japanese, 2022, B.A. (Soka), M.A. (Oregon), Ph.D. (Wisconsin-Madison)
Hardin, J. Michael School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, Ph.D., Credit Course Instructor
(Health Services Administration)
Harman, Tara School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Instructor, 2009, R.D.N., M.S. (East
Carolina University)
Harris, Linda S. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Associate Librarian: Head, Reference
Services, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 1984, B.A. (Stillman), M.S.L.S.
(Atlanta)
Harris, Melissa L. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor of Biology, 2016, B.S.,
Ph.D. (UC Davis), Somatic Stem Cells, Aging, Genetics and Genomics,
Pigmentation Biology
Hartzes, Anastasia School of Public Health
Department of Biostatistics, Assistant Professor, 2019, Ph.D. (UAB),
Meta-analysis, Markov Models, Multiple Sclerosis.
Hasan, Ragib College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Associate Professor of Computer
Science, 2011, B.S. (Dhaka, Bangladesh), M.S., Ph.D. (Illinois Urbana-
Champaign)
Hawkins, Ian College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Assistant Professor, 2022, B.S., M.S.
(Central Michigan), Ph.D. (Michigan)
Hawkins, Richard B. School Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2017,
BS (University of Montevallo), MEng (UAB), Environmental Engineering,
Structural Testing, Construction Management
Hearld, Kristine Ria School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Professor and Program
Director, Doctoral Program in Administration Health-Health Services,
2013, PhD (University of Pennsylvania)
Hemrick, James School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Adjunct Assistant
Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2017, BS (University
of Missouri-Rolla), MS (Georgia Institute of Technology), PhD (University
of Missouri-Rolla), Ceramic Engineering, Materials Science and
Engineering
Henrich, Christopher C College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor of Psychology and Chair of
Psychology, 2021, B.A. (Chicago), Ph.D. (Yale)
Hernandez, S. Robert School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Distinguished Service
Professor, Program Director, Doctoral Program in Healthcare
Leadership, 1972, DrPH (UNC - Chapel Hill)
Herzig, Terrell W. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, M.S.H.I., Credit Course Instructor
(Health Services Administration)
Hettich, Dana L. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Senior Assistant Librarian, Reference
Services, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 2008, B.A., M.A., M.L.I.S. (Alabama)
Hicks, Joan C. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, M.S.H.I., Assistant Professor (Health
Services Administration)
Hill, Kelly L. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Associate Professor of Early
Childhood and Elementary Education, 2017, B.S., M.A., Ed.S., Ph.D.
(UAB)
Hitchcock, Laurel College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, Associate Professor and Director of BSW
Program, 2013, B.A. (Wisconsin-Madison), M.P.H. (UAB), M.S.W., Ph.D.
(Alabama)
Holloway, Stacey College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor of Art, 2009,
B.F.A (Purdue), M.F.A. (Minnesota-Twin Cities), Sculpture, Ceramics,
Engineering
Holman, William L., School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Cardiothoracic
Surgery, 1988, BA (Williams College), MD (Cornell University Medical
College), Management of advanced heart failure; Mechanical circulatory
support devices.
Holmes, Jeffrey W School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Dean of Engineering, Goodrich
Endowed Chair in Cardiovascular Surgery. Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, Cardiovascular Disease, Cardiothoracic Surgery,, 2020,
BS (Johns Hopkins), PhD/MD (UC-San Diego). C, Cardiac mechanics;
Model-based design of therapies for heart disease; Multi-scale
computational modeling of heart mechanics and remodeling; Structure
and mechanics of healing myocardial infarcts; Cardiac hypertrophy and
remodeling; Scar formation, extracellular matrix turnover, and fibrosis.
Hopkins, Maria College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor of Psychology, Director,
Undergraduate Studies of Psychology, 2007, B.S., M.A., Ph.D. (UAB)
Houser, Shannon School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Professor, 2004, Ph.D.
(UAB)
Houston, Caleb School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Assistant Professor of Finance,
2020, BS, MBA (Mississippi College), PhD (Mississippi State University)
Howard, Jack Lee School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Professor of Management, 2009, B.S., A.M., Ph.D. (University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)
Hsu, Shih-Min School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Instructor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2000, BS (National Taiwan
University of Science and Technology), MS, PhD (LSU), PE (LA), Power
systems; Machinery; Dynamic stability; Model validation.
Huang, Xuan School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Quantitative Methods, 2010,
B.E. (Tsinghua University, Beijing), M.Sc., Ph.D. (University of
Massachusetts, Amherst)
Huddleston-
Pettiway, Laketa
Instructor, 2022, Ph.D., (Not Available)
School of Nursing
Hurst-
Wajszczuk, Kristine
College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Professor of Music, 2007, B.M., M.M.
(Westminster Choir-Rider), D.M.A. (Colorado-Boulder)
Hutchings, William (Bill) College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English Emeritus, 1981, A.B.
(Transylvania), M.A., Ph.D. (Kentucky), Modern British Fiction, Modern
Drama, World Literature
Hutson, Susan Perkins School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Associate Professor
Emeritus, Respiratory Therapy Program, 1976, M.A.E. (UAB)
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 21
Hyde, Michael T. Instructor of Nursing, 2012, B.S.N., M.S.N. (Alabama)
School of Nursing
Ideker, Raymond E. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor Emeritus of
Cardiovascular Disease, 1994, MD (University of Tennessee-Knoxville),
Study of cardiac arrhythmia, cardioversion and electrical ablation for
treatment of arrythmia
Ingram, Shelia M. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Clinical Instructor and
Director of Office of Clinical Experiences, 2023, B.S., M.S. (UAB), Ph.D.
(Alabama)
Irving, Howard L. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Professor of Music, 1981, B.Mus. (Centenary),
M.M., Ph.D. (Louisiana State)
Jack, Ave School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Instructor, 2011, BIE (Georgia
Institute of Technology), MS (Boston University), MAEd (UAB)
Jackson, Reginald College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Assistant Professor of Music, 2018, B.S.
(Alabama), M.M. (Northwestern), Ph.D. (Florida State)
Jannett, Thomas C. School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Professor Emeritus
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1984, BSE, MSE (UAB), PhD
(Auburn University), Internet of Things, embedded artificial intelligence,
biomedical instrumentation, control systems
Janowski, Gregg M. School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Dean
of Academic Affairs and Graduate Studies, Professor of Mechanical
and Materials Engineering, 1990, BSMetE, MSMetE, PhD (Michigan
Technological University), Engineering education, assessment and
accreditation, physical metallurgy, structure-processing-property
relationships.
Javed, Amjad College of Joint Health
Sciences
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Associate Dean
and Professor of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery (School of Dentistry),
2005, Ph.D. (University of Punjab, UMass Medical School), Genetic and
molecular signaling for cellular differentiation and skeletogenesis
Jessee, Margaret Jay College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English and Director of
Undergraduate Studies and Literature, 2013, B.A., M.A. (Tennessee),
Ph.D. (Arizona), Gender Studies, Women's Literature, American
Literature, Theory
22 Faculty
Johnson, David L. School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Adjunct Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
2005, BS, MS (Mississippi State University), PE (AL), Geotechnical
Engineering; Foundation design
Johnson, Maria School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Assistant Professor, 2022, PhD
(University of Aberdeen)
Johnstone, John K. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Associate Professor of Computer
Science; Associate Professor of Ophthalmology; Undergraduate
Program Director of Computer Science and Bioinformatics, 1994, B.S.
(Saskatchewan, Canada), M.S., Ph.D. (Cornell)
Jololian, Leon School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Interim Chair and
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2017, BS (Manhattan
College), MS (Georgia Institute of Technology), MS (Polytechnic
University), PhD (New Jersey Institute of Technology), Software
engineering, Internet of Things, mobile and cloud computing, machine
learning
Jones, Alison School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2015, B.S.N., M.S.N., Certificate, Ph.D. (Kentucky)
Jones, Harold P. School of Health
Professions
Professor and Dean, School of Health Professions, 2001, Ph.D. (Duke)
Jones, Jacqueline College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, 2022, B.A., M.S.W. (Alabama)
Jones, Quachetta College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, 2022, B.S.S.W. (UAB), M.S.W. (Alabama)
Judson, Tonya School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2017, B.S.N., M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Julaka, Steven School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2021, B.A. (Montevallo), B.S.N., M.S.N. (UAB)
Jun, Ho-Wook School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2006, BS, MS (Hanyang University), PhD (Rice University),
Biomimetic nanotechnology, Biomaterials, Tissue engineering
Kain, Margaret M. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Senior Assistant Librarian; Electronic
Resources Librarian; Cataloging Collection Management, Mervyn H
Sterne Library, 2006, B.S. (Auburn-Montgomery), M.L.S. (Alabama)
Kana, Bhumika College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Assistant Professor of Psychology, 2024,
B.S, M.A (Delhi University), Ph.D., (Indian Institute of Technology)
Kana, Rajesh College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor of Psychology, Associate Dean,
College of Arts and Sciences, 2024, B.Sc (Calicut University, India), M.A.
(Annamalai University, India), Ph.D. (Indian Institute of Technology)
Kannappan, Ramaswamy School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 2015, BPharm, MPharm (Tamilnadu
DR. M.G.R. Medical University), PhD (Niigata University), Aging
cardiomyopathy, Cardiac stem cells
Karami, Amir, School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Quantitative Methods, 2022, B.S. (Iran
University of Science and Technology), M.S. (University of Tehran),
Ph.D. (University of Maryland Baltimore County)
Karpeshina, Yulia College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1995, M.S.,
Ph.D. (Saint Petersburg, Russia), Partial Differential Equations and
Mathematics Physics
Kasman, Yakov College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Distinguished Professor in Music; Artist in
Residence, 2002, B.M. (Music College of Moscow Conservatory), M.M.,
D.M.A. (Moscow State Conservatory)
Kawai, Ryoichi College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Associate Professor Emeritus of Physics,
1991, B.S., M.S., Ph.D. (Waseda, Japan), Quantum information
theory; quantum computing; quantum thermodynamics; non-
equilibrium statistical mechanics; theoretical cellular biology; theoretical
neuroscience
Keane, Kevin School of Nursing
Instructor; Assistant Dean for Evaluation, 2015, B.A. (Murray State
University), M.Div. (Not Available), M.B.A., Ph.D. (UAB)
Keinänen, Outi College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, 2023, B.S.,
Ph.D. (Univ Helsinki, Finland)
Keith, Verna M College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Professor and Chair of Sociology, 2018, B.A.
(Central Arkansas), M.A., Ph.D. (Kentucky)
Keitt, Andrew W. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Associate Professor of History, 1999, B.A.
(Duke), M.A., Ph.D. (UC Berkeley)
Keltner, Joan School of Nursing
Professor of Nursing, 1980, A.S. (Columbia State Community College),
B.S.N. (UNA), M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Kemp, Dustin W. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor of Biology, 2016, B.S.
(Texas AM); M.S. (Florida Atlantic); Ph.D. (Georgia), Marine Ecology and
Physiology, Global Climate Change
Kennedy, Bridge H. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Associate Professor of Psychology, Director
of Online Psychology, 2013, B.A., M.A., Ph.D. (UAB)
Kennedy, Karen School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Professor
of Marketing and Industrial Distribution; Senior Associate Dean,
Programs and Outreach, 2001, B.S. (Blue Mountain), M.S. (Florida State
University), M.B.A. (Georgia State University), Ph.D. (University of South
Florida)
Kerley, Kent R College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Professor and Chair, 2001, B.S. (East
Tennessee), M.A., Ph.D., (Tennessee), Religiosity, corrections, drug
careers
Khan, Younas College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Instructor of Physics and Undergraduate Lab
Coordinator, 2023, B.S. Physics (University of Peshawar, Pakistan),
M.Phil. Physics (University of Peshawar, Pakistan), M.S. Physics
(University of Missouri Saint Louis), Ph.D. Physics (University of Missouri
Saint Louis),, Near-IR spectroscopy, cometary chemical composition,
Astrochemistry
Kharlampieva, Eugenia College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Distinguished Professor of Chemistry,
2010, B.S. (Chelyabinsk State, Russia), Ph.D. (Stevens Institute of
Technology)
Kilgo, Jennifer L. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, University Professor of
Special Education, 1995, B.A. (Auburn), M.A. (UAB), Ed.D. (Alabama)
Kim, Harrison School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology,
2006, BS (Sungkyunkway University), MBA (UAB), PhD (University of
Arizona), Pancreatic, liver, prostate and brain cancer imaging, AI code
development for automatic medical image processing
King, Jerry School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Assistant Professor,
Respiratory Therapy Program, 2008, M.S. (UAB)
King, Matthew College of Arts and
Sciences
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 23
Department of Philosophy, Professor of Philosophy, 2014, B.A.
(Virginia), M.A., Ph.D. (Maryland)
Kiper, Jordan College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Anthropology, Assistant Professor, 2019, B.A. (Colorado),
M.A. (Colorado State), M.A., Ph.D. (Connecticut)
Kirby, Jason School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Associate Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental
Engineering, 2005, BS (Auburn University), MS PhD (University of
Alabama), Sustainability; Environmental engineering; Water resources;
Hydraulics.
Kittredge, Brian College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Associate Professor of Music; Director of Choral
Activities, 2010, B.M. (Mansfield), M.M. (Eastman), D.M.A. (LSU)
Knight, Candace School of Nursing
Associate Professor of Nursing, 2012, B.S.N., Ph.D. (UAB)
Knight, David C. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor of Psychology; Director,
Behavioral Neuroscience Doctoral Program, 2007, B.S. (Truman State),
M.S., Ph.D. (Wisconsin-Milwaukee)
Knowles, Ian W. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1979, B.Sc.
(Adelaide), M.Sc., Ph.D. (Flinders-South Australia), Ordinary and Partial
Differential Equations, Numerical Analysis
Komol, Grace J. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Professor of Early Childhood
and Elementary Education, 2010, B.S. (Egerton University, Kenya), M.A.
(Moi University, Kenya), Ph.D. (UAB)
Koomullil, Roy P. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2022, BS (Mahatma Gandhi
University), MS (Indian Institute Technology), PhD (Mississippi State
University), Computational fluid dynamics (CFD), rigid body dynamics,
bio-medical flow modeling, machine learning for fluid dynamics
Kornegay, Randall W. School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Senior Instructor of Business Communication, 2006, B.A., M.A.
(UAB)
Koskinen, Karla College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Professor of Theater, 2007, B.A. (Marquette),
M.F.A. (Illinois State)
Kravchuk, Elena College of Arts and
Sciences
24 Faculty
Department of Mathematics, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, 2002,
M.S. (Donetsk State – Ukraine), Ph.D. (NASU, Donetsk – Ukraine)
Krishnamurthy, Prasanna School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2016, BVSc, Ph.D. (Bangalore Veterinary College), MVSc
(Indian Veterinary Research Institute), Cardiovascular pathophysiology
and regeneration, comorbid depression, diabetes, stem cell biology,
sepsis, therapeutics
Kyle, Chris College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Anthropology, Associate Professor, 2000, B.A. (Ft. Lewis
College), M.A., M.Phil., Ph.D. (Columbia)
LaChenaye, Jenna School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Associate Professor of Educational
Psychology and Research, 2014, B.A., B.S., (University of Louisiana),
M.S. (Florida State), Ed.S., Ph.D. (Louisiana State),, Place-based,
cultural and ecological sustainability and education, neocolonial and
poststructuralist theory in education, ethnographic methods in research
and evaluation
Lahti, Adrienne College of Joint Health
Sciences
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Professor of
Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, 2006, M.D. (University
of Liege), Use of multimodal brain imaging techniques to study the
neuropathology of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder and to evaluate
the effects of psychotropic drugs on brain function and biochemistry;
translational work aiming at bridging human brain imaging and
postmortem studies
Laken, Debra E. School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Associate Professor,
Respiratory Therapy Program, 1999, M.A.E. (UAB)
Lancaster, Winston C. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor of Biology, 2014, B.S.
(Auburn); M.S. (LSU), Ph.D. (North Carolina), Human Anatomy,
Comparative Anatomy, Biosonar in Bats and Whales
Lane, Jordan School of Public Health
Department of Public Health, Instructor, 2020, PhD, Health Education
and Promotion, Parental and Collegiate Mental Health, Maternal Health,
Collegiate Pedagogy - Health Behavior
Lanzi, Robin Gaines School of Public Health
Department of Health Behavior, Professor, 2009, Ph.D., M.P.H. (UAB),
Content Focus: Mental Well-Being and Resilience, Disability Health
Promotion, HIV/STI Prevention and Care; Methodological Focus:
Community Engaged Research, Dissemination and Implementation
Science, Qualitative and Mixed Methods
Lariscy, Nichole College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2005, B.A.
(Georgia College and State University), M.A. (Northwestern), Ph.D.
(Wisconsin-Milwaukee), American Literature, Composition,, Gender
Studies
Lawong, Diane A. School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Assistant Professor of Management, 2020, B.S., M.L.R.H.R.,
(Cleveland State University), Ph.D. (Florida State University)
Lawson, Christopher M. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Professor of Physics, 1993, B.S. (Oklahoma
State), M.S. (Colorado), Ph.D. (Oklahoma State), Nonlinear optics; fiber
optics; optical sensors; optical coherence imaging tomography; laser
spectroscopy
Layton, Shannon School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2010, B.A. (West Georgia); M.S.W.
(Alabama), M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Leban, Lindsay College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Assistant Professor, 2018, B.A. (Florida
Gulf Coast), M.A., Ph.D. (Florida), Drugs, Neighborhood Collective
Efficacy, Gender
Ledlow, Jennifer School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2018, B.S.N., M.S.N. (UAB)
Lee, Heather J. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Instructor, 2020, M.P.H.
(UAB), Vulnerable populations, public health practice, maternal and child
health, population health simulation, health care
Lee, Heather J. School of Public Health
Department of Public Health, Instructor, 2020, MPH (UAB), Vulnerable
populations, public health practice, maternal and child health, population
health simulation, health care
Lee, Hui-Ting College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Assistant Professor, 2019, B.S. (National
Dong Hwa University of Taiwan), Ph.D. (University of Nebraska Medical
Center)
Lee, Seung-
Yup (Joshua)
School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Assistant Professor,
2022, Ph.D. (Wayne State University)
Lee, Yookyong College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, Associate Professor , 2013, B.A., M.S.W.
(Michigan), M.A., Ph.D. (Columbia)
Leece, Ryan School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Associate Professor of
Accounting, 2014, BS (University of Minnesota); MA (University of North
Carolina), PhD (Virginia Tech)
Lei, Ye School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 2022, BS (Shanghai Medical University), PhD
(National University of Singapore), Heart regeneration; Stem cells;
endothelial dysfunction, diabetes
Lemons, Jack E. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, University Professor Emeritus,
1968, Ph.D. (Florida), Biocompatibility profiles of surgical implant devices
with an emphasis on the role(s) of element and/or force transfers along
biomaterial-to-tissue interfaces
Levine, Timothy R. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Distinguished Professor, 2015,
B.A. (Northern Arizona); M.A. (West Virginia); Ph.D. (Michigan State)
Lewis-
Maddox, Angela K.
College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Professor,
2003, B.A. (Alabama), M.P.A., Ph.D., (Tennessee)
Li, JunFang College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Associate Professor of Mathematics, 2008,
B.A. (Wuhan Univ., China), Ph.D. (Oklahoma), Geometric Analysis and
Non-linear Partial Differential Equations
Li, Keren College of Arts and
Sciences
Departmemt of Mathematics, Assistant Professor, 2022, B.A. (Nankai
University, China), M.S. (Louisiana State), Ph. D. (Illinois - Chicago),
Distributed machine learning; Genomic data analysis; Structural equation
models; Generalized linear models; Variable selection
Li, Wei School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Associate Professor,
2017, Ph.D. (Southern Illinois University, Carbondale)
Lightner, Roy College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Associate Professor, 2017, B.M. (Oklahoma
City), M.F.A. (Goddard)
Lim, Hyeyoung College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Associate Professor, 2013, Ph.D.
(Sam Houston State), Police Use of Force, Police Decision Making,
Quantitative Methods, Program and Policy Evaluation
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 25
Lingasubramanian, Karthikeyan School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Instructor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2022, MS, PhD (University of
South Florida), Design of integrated circuits and systems, electronics
reliability, hardware cybersecurity, photonics
Linville, Jason G. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Teaching Associate Professor, 2004,
B.S. (Ohio), M.S., Ph.D. (UAB), Forensic Biology, Entomology, Forensic
Science Education
Lisenbee, Shannon School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Instructor of Mechanical and Materials
Engineering, 2020, BS (Mississippi State University), MS (UAB),
Engineering graphics, computational mechanics, thermal energy
systems
Littlefield, David L. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Professor of Mechanical
and Materials Engineering, 2005, BS, MS, PhD (Georgia Institute of
Technology), Computational mechanics, impact mechanics and shock
physics, weapons effects
Littleton, Caroline School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2021, B.S.N., M.S.N. (UAB)
Liu, Lei School of Optometry
Department of Vision Sciences, Associate Professor of Optometry, 2006,
BS (Sichuan University), MS (Graduate School of Academia Sinica),
PhD (University of California at Berkeley), Low vision visual function and
rehabilitation
Loder-
School of Education
Jackson, Tondra
Department of Human Studies , Professor of Foundations of
Education, 2003, B.S. (Birmingham-Southern), M.P.P. (Chicago), Ph.D.
(Northwestern), Urban Education, African, American Educational History,
Civil Rights and Education, Life Course and Life History Approaches
Long, Jennifer M. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Senior Assistant Librarian, Reference
Services, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 1997, B. S. (Bowling Green), M.L.S.
(Kent State)
Lowery, Rachel School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2024, B.S.N. (Alabama), M.S.N. (UNA)
Loyd, Christine School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Assistant Professor,
2019, PhD (University of Cincinnati)
26 Faculty
Lu, Kathy School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Chair and Professor of Mechanical and
Materials Engineering, 2023, BS (Tianjin University), MS, PhD (Ohio
State University), Polymer derived ceramics and composites, materials
degradation in harsh environments, data-driven materials processing and
characterization, materials synthesis, processing, characterization, and
fundamental studies
Lucius, Aaron L. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Professor of Chemistry, 2006, B.S. (Oregon
State), Ph.D. (Washington U.)
Lukhele, Bhekumusa School of Public Health
Department of Health Policy and Organization, Assistant Professor,
2022, MPH, PhD (Kyoto University), Global health, global health
governance, infectious diseases, and innovations in the prevention and
control of infectious diseases
Lungu, Anca College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Instructor of Physics, 2014, B.S., M.S.
(University of Bucharest), Ph.D. (South Carolina), Physics education
research, eLearning applied to physics education, development of new
online courses and laboratories
Ma, Ling College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Instructor of Chinese,
2013, B.A. (Jinan University, China), B.S. (UAB), Chinese Language
Training Program (Troy; Sun Yat-sen University, China) M.Ed., (UAB)
MacCarthy, Sarah School of Public Health
Department of Health Behavior, Associate Professor Magic City LGBTQ
Health Studies Endowed Chair, 2021, Sc.D., (Harvard School of Public
Health), LGBTQ health, systematic mixed-methods, community-led
research
MacDougall, Mary School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Adjunct Professor of
Periodontology, 2019, BS (Saint Mary’s College), PhD (UAB), Genetic
dental diseases, Tooth development, Mineralized matrix, Gene
regulation
Madden-
Lunsford, Kerry
College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English, 2009, B.A., M.F.A.
(Tennessee), Creative Writing, Fiction, Writing for Young People
Maddox, John College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Associate Professor
of Foreign Languages, 2014, B.A., B.S.Ed., M.A. (Georgia), Ph.D.
(Vanderbilt )
Mahapatra, Manoj K. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2015, BTech (University
of Calcutta), MTech (Indian Institute of Technology), PhD (Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University), Ceramics and glasses for
advanced energy systems, structural ceramics, chemistry-processing-
structure-property relationship, electrochemistry, materials degradation
Major, Melba College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Assistant Professor of English, 2014, B.A.
(Union), M.A. (UAB), M.F.A. (Antioch), Composition, Developmental
Writing, Literature
Malone, Meagan E College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Assistant Professor of English, 2021, B.A.
(Millsaps), M.A. (UNC Greensboro), M.A., Ph.D. (Georgia State),
Professional Writing, Digital Rhetoric, Composition
Maloney, Mary School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2023, B.S.N. (UAB), M.S.N. (Samford)
Manocha, Parul School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Assistant Professor of Entrepreneurship, 2023, B.A. (Lady Shri
Ram College for Women), Ph.D. (Virginia Tech)
March, Joe L. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Professor of Chemistry; Associate
Director, Science and Technology Honors Program, 1999, B.S., M.S.
(Southwestern Texas), Ph.D. (Texas)
Marchi, Sydney College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Instructor, 2023, B.S. (Tennessee Tech),
Ph.D. (Alabama)
Marion, Ken R. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Professor Emeritus of Biology, 1971, B.A.,
Ph.D. (Washington, St. Louis), Animal Natural History and Aquatic
Environmental Biology
Marquaz-
School of Engineering
Nostra, Bernadette
Department of Engineering, Associate Professor of Radiology, 2023, .
BS (California State University Fullerton), PhD (University of California
Davis), Development of novel imaging agents for PET and SPECT and
dual-tracer imaging strategies for predicting and monitoring response to
antibody therapeutics in oncology
Marstrander, Jon School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Instructor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2005, BS, MS, PhD (UAB),
PE (AL), Signal and image processing, embedded systems, field
programmable gate arrays
Martin, Heather Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Associate Librarian, Reference Services,
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 1998, B.A. (Furman), M.A., M.L.I.S. (South
Carolina)
Martin, James C. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Professor Emeritus of Physics, 1980, B.S.
(Florida State), Ph.D. (Georgia Tech), Physics and science Education
Martin, John School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Management, 2023, B.S. (University of
Oregon), M.B.A. (Western New England College), Ph.D. (Florida State
University)
Martins, Catia School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Associate Professor, 2021, PhD, RD
(University of Surrey)
Martyshkin, Dmitri V. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Research Assistant Professor, 2010, B.S.
(Novosibirsk State University, Russia), M.S., Ph.D. (UAB), Development
of spectroscopic characterization of doped laser materials; solid-state
lasers; laser spectroscopy for molecular-sensing applications
May, Josh College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Philosophy, Professor of Philosophy, 2013, B.A.
(California State Sacramento), Ph.D. (University of California-Santa
Barbara)
Mayer, John C. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, 1984,
B.A. (Randolph-Macon), M.A., Ph.D. (Florida), Topology, Continuum
Theory, Dynamical Systems, Mathematics Education
Mayfield, Brenda School of Nursing
Instructor, 2019, B.S.N. (Colorado State), M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
McBride, Judith B. School of Public Health
Department of Public Health, Instructor, 1993, MSPH (UAB), Laboratory
Safety, Noise Exposure and Sustainability
McCain, Kevin College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Philosophy, Professor of Philosophy, 2012, B.A.
(Southeast Missouri State), M.A. (Missouri-Columbia), Ph.D. (Rochester)
McCay, Jeffrey E. School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Adjunct Instructor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
2021, BSCE (UAB), PE, PLS (AL), Land Surveying
McClintock, James B. College of Arts and
Sciences
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 27
Department of Biology, University Professor Emeritus of Polar and
Marine Biology, 1987, B.S. (California), M.S., Ph.D. (South Florida),
Marine Invertebrate Chemical Ecology, Climate Change Biology
McClure, Colleen School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Assistant
Professor of Distribution, 2022, Ph.D. (Oklahoma State University)
McCormick, Lisa School of Public Health
Department of Health Policy and Organization, Professor and Associate
Dean of Public Health, Dean's Office, 2010, Dr.PH. (UAB), Program
evaluation, training outcomes, public health preparedness
McCornack, Steven College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Professor, 2015, B.A.
(Washington), M.A., Ph.D. (Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)
McCracken, Michael School of Dentistry
Department of Clinical Dentistry, Professor of Behavioral and Population
Sciences, 2010, MS, PhD (UAB), DDS (University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill), Dental implants, Biomimetic materials, Growth factors
McDaniel, David R. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Research Associate Professor
of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2008, BS (US Air Force
Academy), MS (George Washington University), PhD (University
of Colorado, Colorado Springs), High performance computing,
computational fluid dynamics, multidisciplinary air vehicle simulation
McEnerney, Laura School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2024, B.S.N. (Auburn Univ.), M.S.N. (UAB)
McGrath, Shelly A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Associate Professor, 2008, B.S.
(St. Mary’s), M.S. (Ball State), Ph.D. (Southern Illinois), Quantitative
Methods, Crime Mapping, Violence
McKenzie, Timothy School of Education
Department of Curriculum Instruction, Clinical Instructor of Secondary
Education, 2016, B.S., M.Ed. (UAB), Ed.S. (Montevallo)
McKnight, Andrew School of Education
Department of Human Studies , Associate Professor of Foundations of
Education, 2003, B.A. (Virginia Commonwealth), M.A.Ed. (William Mary),
Ph.D. (North Carolina at Greensboro), Social/Cultural Theory, Diversity
and Equity, Ethics, Current Educational Policy, and the Emotional
Contexts of Schooling
McLernon, Dennis J. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Professor of Theatre, Head of Performance,
2000, B.A. (Allentown), M.Ed. (Auburn-Montgomery), M.F.A. (Alabama-
Alabama Shakespeare Festival)
McLester, Laura College of Arts and
Sciences
28 Faculty
Department of Criminal Justice, Teaching Assistant Professor and Digital
Forensics Coordinator, 2018, B.S., M.S. (UAB), Cybercrime, Digital
Forensics, Digital Trust and Safety
McMahon, Sean M. School of Public Health
Department of Public Health, Instructor, 2022, MA (UAB), Lister Hill
Center for Health Policy
McMath, Ashley School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2023, B.S.N. (Jacksonville State), M.S.N. (Grand
Canyon University), D.N.P. (Samford)
McMurtry, Teaira, C.L. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of
Secondary Education, 2020, BA (Univ. WI-Parkside), MA (Alverno
College), PhD (Cardinal Stritch)
Meadows, Benjamin School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Assistant
Professor of Economics, 2020, B.S. (Samford University), Ph.D.
(University of Tennessee)
Mehta, Tapan School of Health
Professions
Department of Physical Therapy, Associate Professor and Director of
Research, 2013, PhD (UAB)
Melton, Latoya College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, Assistant Professor, 2018, B.A. (Stillman),
M.S.W. (Alabama)
Menasche, Phillipe School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2019, M.D., Ph.D. (University of Paris), Stem-cell-derived
extracellular vesicles for the treatment of heart failure
Menear, Kristi S. School of Education
Department of Human Studies , Professor of Kinesiology, 2001, B.A.
(Louisiana), M.A., Ph.D. (New Orleans), Adapted physical education/
activity, wellness for individuals with disabilities
Merritt, Stephen College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Anthropology, Associate Professor, 2013, B.S., M.A.,
Ph.D. (Rutgers)
Mersmann, James College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English. Emeritus, 1973,
B.A. (Missouri-Kansas City), M.A., Ph.D. (Kansas)
Messina, Frank M. School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Alumni and Friends Professor
of Accounting, 1993, B.S. (University of West Alabama), M.Acc., Ph.D.
(Mississippi State University), C.P.A.
Messina, Marena School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Assistant Professor of
Accounting, 2020, BS (Alabama), MAc (UAB), Ph.D. (Kennesaw State
University), C.P.A.
Metcalf, Sevante K. School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Instructor of Finance, 2012,
B.A., M.B.A. (UAB)
Miller, Brianna School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Assistant Professor,
2009, M.S. (UAB), SBB, Transfusion Medicine
Miller, Gabe H. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Assistant Professor of Sociology, 2022, B.A.,
M.A., Ph.D. (Texas AM).
Miller, Stephen J. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Professor of History and Graduate Program
Director, 2001, B.A. (Wisconsin), M.A., Ph.D. (UCLA)
Milligan, Gary School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2008, B.S.N. (Birmingham-Southern),
M.S.N. (Jacksonville State), M.S.H.A., D.N.P. (UAB)
Mina, Lilian College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, Director
Freshman Writing, 2022, B.A., M.A. (Cairo), PhD (Indiana Univ.
of Pennsylvania), Digital Writing, Writing Program Administration,
Multilingual Composition
Minnix, Christopher College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2012, B.S.
(Grace College), M.A. (Radford), Ph.D. (Tennessee), Rhetorical Theory,
Transnational Rhetoric, Compositions Studies
Mirbozorgi, S. Abdollah School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Assistant Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2018, BS (Mazandaran
University), MS (Ferdowsi University of Mashhad), PhD (Laval
University), Advancing innovative neurotechnologies, short-range
wireless power and data transmissions, ultrasound technologies,
integrated analog/mixed-signal circuits and microsystems, assistive
technologies
Mirov, Sergey B. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, University Professor of Physics, 1993, Master
(Moscow Power Engineering Institute), Ph.D. (USSR Academy of
Sciences), Experimental quantum electronics, solid-state lasers, laser
spectroscopy
Mitchell, Dana School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2009, B.S.N. (Alabama), M.S.N., D.N.P.
(UAB)
Moak, Stacy, College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Professor,,
2020,, B.S. (Southern Mississippi), J.D. (Loyola), Ph.D. (New Orleans)
Moellering, Douglas School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Associate Professor and Director
BS in Biobehavioral Nutrition and Wellness Program, 2008, PhD
(UAB), Mitochondrial physiology, bioenergetics, and free radical-
mediated tissue injury and disease pathologies. Currently, research is
focused on mitochondrial free-radical production contributing to altered
bioenergetics, the development of obesity, insulin resistance and T2DM,
increased cardiovascular disease susceptibility, and aging.
Mohammad Firouz School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Assistant Professor of
Management, 2019, B.S. (Sharif University of Technology, Iran), M.S.,
Ph.D. (University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL)
Moneyham, Linda School of Nursing
Professor of Nursing; Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, 2007,
B.S.N. (Berea College), M.S.N. (Kentucky), Ph.D. (Indiana)
Moody, Myles College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Assistant Professor of Sociology, 2020, B.A.
(Morehouse), M.A. (Memphis), Ph.D. (Kentucky)
Moore, John K. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Professor of Spanish,
Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs, 2003, B.A. (University of the South),
M.A.T. (Middle Tennessee State), Ph.D. (North Carolina-Chapel Hill)
Moore, Randy School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, B.S.N., M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Moradi, Lee School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Professor of Mechanical
Engineering; Director of Engineering and Innovative Technology
Development, 1996, B.S., M.S., Ph.D. (UAB), Vibrations; Systems
Engineering; Finite Elements Method
Morantz, Cara College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Associate Professor of Music, 2014, B.M. (Miami),
M.M., Ed.D. (Georgia)
Morgan, Amy School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Clinical Instructor, 2019, B.S.
(Auburn), M.Ed., Ph.D. (UAB)
Morgan, Kathryn College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Professor and Director of African
American Studies, 1991, B.S., M.A. (Texas Woman’s), Ph.D. (Florida
State), Corrections, Criminological Theory, Violence, Race, Gender
crime
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 29
Morris, Cody School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Associate Professor of Kinesiology,
2018, B.S. (Lipscomb University), M.S. (University of Mississippi), Ph.D.,
Exercise Physiology; Sport and Human Performance; Ergonomics;
Musculoskeletal Injury Risk Reduction
Morris, J. Jeffrey College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor of Biology, 2015, B.S.
(Kennesaw State); Ph.D. (Tennessee-Knoxville), Experimental Evolution,
Microbial Ecology, and Marine Microbiology
Morrison, Kelly College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Professor, 2015, B.A. (Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign); M.A., Ph.D. (Michigan State)
Mowling, Claire M. School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Associate Professor of Kinesiology,
2015, B.S., M.S. (Troy State), Ed.D. (Auburn), Physical Education
Mrug, Sylvie College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, University Professor, Professor of
Psychology, 2005, M.A. (Charles), M.S., Ph.D. (Purdue)
Muhammad Mohebujjaman College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, 2023,
M.S. (Clemson University), Ph.D. (Clemson University)
Mumford, Gregory College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Anthropology, Associate Professor, 2007, B.S., M.A.,
Ph.D. (Toronto)
Munchus III, George M. School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods , Professor of Management, 1976, B.S., M.B.A., Ph.D. (North
Texas State), A.P.S.
Munoz, Elizabeth School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2022, D.N.P, (Vanderbilt)
Murphy, Britney College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Assistant Professor of History, 2012, B.A.
(Connecticut), M.A. (Connecticut), Ph.D. (Connecticut)
Murphy, Patrick J. School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Professor and Goodrich Endowed Chair of Innovation and
Entrepreneurship, 2018, B.S. (Morningside College), M.S. (Wright State
University), PhD. (University of Illinois, Chicago)
Murphy-
Ullrich, Joanne
College of Joint Health
Sciences
30 Faculty
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Professor
Emerita of Molecular and Cellular Pathology, 1986, Ph.D. (University
of Wisconsin-Madison), Extracellular Matrix Control of Cell and Growth
Factor Function
Murray, Sean P. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Associate Professor of Music, 2017, B.A., M.A.,
Ph.D. (Florida State)
Musa, Phillip F. School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Professor of Management, 2000, B.S., M.S., M.B.A. (Texas
Tech)
Musgrove, Karen School of Public Health
Department of Health Care Organization and Policy, Instructor, 2020,
Ph.D. (UAB),, Non-profit management, LGBTQAI+ rights, social work,
HIV/AIDS support.
Mwenesongole, Ellen M College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Associate Professor, 2015, B.S. Hons
(Univ. of Kwa-Zulu Natal), M.S. Forensic Science (Univ. of Strathclyde),
M.S. Chemistry (Univ. of Pretoria), Ph.D. Forensic Science Chemistry
(Anglia Ruskin Univ), Illicit Drugs, Wastewater, Hair Fibers, Counterfeit
Products
Myer, Ryan College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Assistant Professor of Art, 2022, B.F.A.
(University of Alabama at Birmingham), M.F.A. (University of California,
Davis)
Myers, Gregory School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Instructor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2000, BS (Auburn University), MS
(UAB)., Computer methods in engineering; Programming; Internet of
Things.
Nabors, Eddie School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Instructor of Accounting, and
Internship Coordinator, 2011, B.S. (Alabama), M.Acc. (University of West
Florida)
Nabors, L. Burt School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Neurology, 2000,
MS (University of Tennessee Medical Science Center), Brain tumor
treatment and research program
Nakada, Yuji School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2020, BS (Institute of Himeji Technology), PhD (Osaka
University), Cardiac regeneration research
Nakhmani, Arie School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Associate Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2013, BS, MS, PhD (Technion-
Israel Institute of Technology), Biomedical signal analysis, machine
learning, computer vision, systems and control, neuroengineering
Navasca, Carmeliza College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Associate Professor of Mathematics,
2012, B.A. (California - Berkeley), Ph.D. (California - Davis), Multilinear
Algebra, Control Theory, Optimization, Data Mining
Nazari, Rouzbeh School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Associate Professor of Civil, Construction and Environmental
Engineering, 2019, BS (Isfahan University of Technology), ME
(City College of New York), MS, PhD (City University of New York),
Environmental engineering, water resources, coastal resiliency
Neil, Rush School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Instructor of
Distribution, 2019, MBA (University of South Carolina)
Newfield, Erica School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2023, D.N.P., (University of New Mexico)
Newton, Allison School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Clinical Instructor and
Director of edTPA and Partnership and Completer Outreach, 2022, B.A.
(University of Alabama), M.A., Ph.D. (UAB)
Nguyen, Somali School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2019, B.S.N., M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Nichols, Robert H. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Research Professor of
Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2002, BS (Mississippi
State University), MS, PhD (University of Tennessee), Propulsion,
computational fluid dynamics, turbulence modeling
Nikles, Jacqueline A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Professor of Chemistry, 2001, B.S. (Marietta
College), Ph.D. (Case Western Reserve)
Ning, Haibin School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Professor
of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2010, BE (Central South
University), MS (Guangxi University), PhD (UAB), Polymer matrix
composites, metal matrix composites, physical metallurgy, engineering
plastics, design, modeling, and prototyping
Niranjan, Soumya School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Assistant Professor,
2018, PhD (UAB)
Niwa, Minae School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurobiology, 2019, BS (Tokyo University of
Pharmacy and Life Sciences), PhD (Nagoya University), Psychosocial
stress on brain maturation, function, and behavior.
Nkashama, Mubenga N. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1989, Ph.D.
(Catholic University of Louvain, Belgium), Partial Differential Equations;
Nonlinear Analysis; Continuous Dynamical Systems
Nordlund, Thomas M. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Associate Professor Emeritus of Physics, 1990,
B.A. (Oregon), M.S., Ph.D. (Illinois), Physics education; biological
imaging and self-assembly
O'Kelley, Sarah E. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Associate Professor of Psychology, 2012,
B.A., M.A., Ph.D. (Alabama)
Odame, Emmanuel School of Public Health
Department of Environmental Health Science, Assistant Professor, 2019,
Ph.D., M.P.H. (East Tennessee State), Health disparities, and Wet Bulb
Globe Temperature (WBGT) application in heat stress monitoring and
evaluation.
Olive, J. Fred Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, III, Associate Librarian: Head, User Services,
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 1988, B.A. (Samford), M.L.S., Ed.S., Ed.D.
(Alabama)
Oliver, Nathan School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Senior Instructor of Management, 2003, B.S. (UAB), M.B.A.
(Alabama AM University)
Oversteegen, Lex G. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1980, Kandidaat
Doctorandus (Amsterdam), Ph.D. (Wayne State), Topology, Continuum
Theory, Dynamical Systems
O’Leary, Malinda Blair College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Associate Professor of
Spanish, 2005, B.A., M.Ed. (UAB), Ph.D. (Alabama)
O’Neil, Peter V. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, 1978,
B.S. (Fordham), M.S., Ph.D. (Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute), Graph
Theory, Combinatorics
Padilla, Luz School of Public Health
Department of Epidemiology, Assistant Professor, 2016, M.S.P.H.; M.D.
(Guadalajara), International health disparities and Global Studies
Page, Amy College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Assistant Professor of Theatre, 2014, B.A.
(Winthrop), M.F.A. (North Carolina)
Palazzo, Robert E. College of Arts and
Sciences
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 31
Departmen of Biology, Professor of Biology, 2013, B.S., Ph.D. (Wayne
State University), Cell Biology, Biochemistry, Centrosome Biology
Panion III, Henry College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, University Professor of Music, 1987, B.S.
(Alabama AM), M.A., Ph.D. (Ohio State)
Parcak, Sarah H. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Anthropology, Professor, 2006, B.A. (Yale), M.A., Ph.D.
(Cambridge)
Parpura, Vladimir College of Joint Health
Sciences
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Professor;
Neurobiology, 2007, MD (University of Zagreb), PhD (Iowa State
University), The role of glial cells in physiology of nervous system
Parris, Kaitrin School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, Assistant Dean for Undergraduate and
PreLicensure Edu BSN, 2014, B.S.N. (William Carey); M.S.N. (Phoenix);
D.N.P. (Case Western)
Patel, Bela School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, 2016, B.S., M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Patton, Emily School of Nursing
Assistant Professor, B.S.N. (Carson-Newman), M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Paustian, Pamela E. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Assistant Professor
and Program Director, Health Care Management Program, 2001, PhD
(UAB), Leadership Resilience, Managerial, and Operational Practices in
Healthcare, Technology Driven Approaches to Education
Pavela, Gregory School of Public Health
Department of Health Behavior, Associate Professor and Associate
Dean for Academic Affairs, Dean's Office, 2015, Ph.D. (Florida), Social
status and obesity, early life modifiers of the relationship between obesity
and morality, survey research methods, and mediation and moderation
Pearson, Keith School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Assistant Professor, Director, Dietetic
Internship Track, 2023, RDN, PhD (UAB)
Pellathy, Elisabeth College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor, 2014, B.F.A.,
M.F.A. (Alfred University - New York), Art Technology, Video, Internet
Environments and Ecology
Pence, Gregory E College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Philosophy, Professor of Philosophy, 1976, B.A. (William
Mary), M.A., Ph.D. (New York University)
Perakis, Ilias College of Arts and
Sciences
32 Faculty
Department of Physics, Professor and Chair, 2015, B.S. (National
Technical University of Athens), M.S., Ph.D. (Illinois, Urbana-
Champaign), Theoretical computational condensed matter physics;
simulation of time-dependent nonlinear phenomena away from
equilibrium; optical properties of quantum materials; harnessing quantum
coherence with laser pulses and computation
Peters, Robert W. School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Professor Emeritus of Civil, Construction, and Environmental
Engineering, 2001, BS (Northwestern University), MS, PhD (Iowa
State University), PE (IN, IL), Environmental engineering, water and
wastewater treatment, hazardous waste treatment
Pfluger, Peter School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Instructor of Management, 2016, B.B.A (Penn State University,
Harrisburg), M.B.A. (Penn State University)
Phillips, Scott L. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Associate Professor of Music, 2008, B.A. (Brigham
Young), M.A. (Central Florida), Ph.D. (Iowa)
Phillips, Stephanie College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Instructor of Mathematics, 2022, B.S.
Edu. (Jacksonville State University), M.A. (East Carolina University),
Secondary Education Mathematics
Phillips, Tricia College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, 2023,
B.A. (Hartwick College), M.S., Ph.D. (Tennessee), Mathematical Biology
Pilkerton, Patty A. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Associate Librarian, Cataloging Collection
Management, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 1988, B.S. (Montevallo), M.A.
(UAB), M.L.S. (Alabama)
Pillay, Selvum School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Professor of
Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2007, Bach (Durban University
of Technology), MSME (Florida AM), PhD (UAB), Polymer matrix
composites, manufacturing and processing, design for manufacture,
sustainable materials and manufacturing; RD to commercialization
Pitner, Ronald O College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, Professor and Chair, 2021, B.A. (Lee), M.A.
(Tennessee), M.S.W., Ph.D. (Michigan)
Plaisance, Eric School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Associate Professor, 2022, PhD
(Auburn)
Pogwizd, Steven School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Cardiovascular
Disease, 2008, MD (Washington University, St. Louis), Medicine,
Physiology and Biophysics
Pollard, Andrew School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 1996, BSE, MSE, PhD (Duke University, Cardiac
electrophysiology, computer simulations and modeling of electrical
signals of the heart
Ponder, Jennifer School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Associate Professor of Early
Childhood and Elementary Education, 2015, B.S., M.A. (UAB), Ph.D.
(Indiana)
Powell, Mickie L. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor of Biology, 2016, B.S., M.S.,
Ph.D. (UAB), Invertebrate Physiology
Powers, Summer School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2009, B.S.N. (Southern Mississippi),
M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Powers, Thomas L. School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Professor
of Marketing and Industrial Distribution, 1985, B.S., M.B.A. (Eastern
Michigan), Ph.D. (Michigan State)
Prado, Josephine School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Associate Professor of
English as a Second Language Education, 2016, B.A. (Agnes Scott
College), M.A., Ph.D. (Alabama)
Price, Julie School of Public Health
Department of Health Policy and Organization, Assistant Professor,
2020, Ph.D. (UAB), M.S. (Auburn University), Organizational
sustainability, triple bottom line (environmental, social, and economic)
contributors to public health, place-based experiential learning
Price, William College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Professor of Music, 2006, B.M.E. (UNA), M.M.,
D.M.A. (LSU)
Puchta, Tami College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Instructor of Mathematics, 2015, Ed.S.
(UAB), Math Education
Qi, Yubo College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Assistant Professor of Physics, 2023, B.S.
(University of Science and Technology of China), Ph.D. (University
of Pennsylvania), Condensed matter theory; Machine-learning based
methods; First-principles calculations; Ferroelectrics; Molecular
dynamics simulations
Qiao, Zhilei School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Assistant Professor of Information Systems, 2018, B.A.
(Shandong University of Science Technology), M.E. (Tianjin Polytechnic
University), PhD. (Virginia Tech)
Quinlan, Kieran College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English Emeritus, 1986, B.A., M.A.
(Oxford), M.A., Ph.D. (Vanderbilt), American Literature, Literature of the
American South
Randall, Kimberly School of Public Health
Department of Public Health, Instructor, 2021, B.A., M.A. (Alabama),
Health Equity, Community Engagement, Healthcare Communications,
State Health Policy, Lister Hill Center for Health Policy
Rast, Lauren College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Assistant Professor of Physics, 2014, B.S.,
M.S., Ph.D. (UAB), Physics education research; computational and data
science education; development of physics courses for the distance-
accessible environment; educational technologies
Raut, Samiksha College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor of Biology, 2012, B.S.,
M.S. (Nagpur), Ph.D. (UAB), General Biology, Microbiology, and STEM
Education
Reuter, Tina Kempin College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Professor,
Director, Institute for Human Rights, 2016, M.A., Ph.D. (Zurich)
Reynolds, Jenna College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Instructor of Spanish,
2022, B.A., M.A. (University of Alabama)
Richter, Caroline G. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Assistant Professor of Psychology, 2022,
B.A. (Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil), M.S., Ph.D.
(University of Louisville)
Riddle, Nicole C. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Professor of Biology, 2012, B.S. (University
of Missouri), Ph.D. (Washington University in St. Louis), Epigenetics
Chromatin, Gene Regulation, Exercise and Aging
Riddle, Robin L. Instructor
School of Public Health
Rivera, C. Julio School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Information Systems, 1988, B.S., M.S.
(Texas AM), M.B.A. (Southern Mississippi), Ph.D. (Mississippi State)
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 33
Rivers, Carleton School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Assistant Professor and Director,
Nutrition and Dietetics Certificate, 2016, RDN, MS (UAB)
Robbin, Michelle School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology,
2003, BS (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), MS (University
of Minnesota), MD (Mayo Medical School), Hemodialysis patient
ultrasound, ultrasound contrast agents and vascular ultrasound
Roberts, Steve College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Associate Professor of Music, 2007, B.M.
(Oberlin), M.M., D.M.A. (Illinois)
Robinson, Josh School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Associate
Professor of Economics and Chair, 2012, PhD (Emory)
Robinson, LaQuadria School of Nursing
Instructor, 2022, B.S.N., M.S.N., D.N.P. (UAB)
Rodriguez Tsouroukdissian, Carolina College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor
of Spanish, 2020, BA (Universidad Catolica Andres Bello, Caracas,
Venezuela), MA, PhD (Vanderbilt )
Rogers, Jack M. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 1994, BS, MS, PhD (University of California-San Diego,
Cardiac electrophysiology, computer simulations, signal analysis of
cardiac arrythmias
Rosa-Garrido, Manuel School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 2022, BS (University of Jaen), BS (University
of Grenada), PhD (University of Cantabria), Epigenetics, chromatin
structure, heart disease
Rowe, Glenn C. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Medicine, 2014, BS (Brandeis University), MS, PhD (Yale University).,
Transcriptional regulation; mitochondrial metabolism; exercise
physiology.
Russo-
Skinner, Giuliana
College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Instructor of Italian,
2015, B.A. (G. D'Annunzio U., Pescara, Italy), M.Ed. (UAB), M.A.
(Ca’Foscari U., Venezia, Italy)
Ryan, Cynthia College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English and Director
Professional Writing, 1998, B.S., M.A. (Illinois State), Ph.D. (Purdue),
Composition, Professional Writing, Public Discourse, Medical Rhetoric
34 Faculty
Safford, Amanda School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2024, B.S.N. (Alabama), M.S.N.(UAH), D.N.P.
(Samford)
Saito, Yoshimi College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics,
1983, B.A., M.A., Ph.D. (Kyoto, Japan), Scattering Theory, Differential
Equations
Sallese, Mary Rose School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of Special
Education, 2021, B.S., M.Ed. (Truman State), Ph.D. (Texas AM)
Samal, Juhi School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2024, BTech (College of Engineering and Technology),
MTech (Indian Institute of Technology), PhD (National University of
Ireland), Glycans, brain disorders, central nervous system, biomaterials
Sanders, Allyson Nicole School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2021, B.S.N. (Jacksonville University), M.S.N.
(UAB)
Santiago, Ana Maria College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Instructor of English, 2014, B.A., M.A. (UAB),
Literature, Composition
Sasser, Rachel School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2020, B.S.N. (Auburn University at Montgomery),
M.S.N. (UAB)
Savage, Arline School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Professor of Accounting, 2012,
Ph.D. (University of Port Elizabeth-South Africa), CA (SA)
Saxena, Nitesh College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Professor of Computer Science; MS
Cyber Security Program Co-Director, 2011, B.S. (IIT Kharagpur, India),
M.S., Ph.D. (California-Irvine)
Schexnayder, Julie School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2022, B.S.N., M.S.N., D.N.P., (University
of Virginia)
Schimizzi, Anthony J. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Associate Librarian, Cataloging Collection
Management, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 1978, B.A. (Cornell), M.A.
(North Carolina), M.L.S. (Kentucky)
Schnormeier, Kimberly A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Associate Professor of Theatre, 1991, B.F.A.
(Miami), M.F.A. (Northwestern)
Schwanke, Alan College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Assistant Professor of Theatre, 2022, B.F.A.
(Central Oklahoma), M.F.A. (Northwestern)
Schwebel, David C. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, University Professor and Associate Vice
President, 2000, B.A. (Yale), M.A., Ph.D. (Iowa)
Scripa, Rosalia School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Professor Emeritus
of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2017, BS (Alfred), MS
(Pennsylvania State University), PhD (Florida State University), PE (AL,
Structure and properties of glass and ceramics, semiconductor crystal
growth, electronic and magnetic materials, growth and characterization
of II-VI semiconducting compounds
Segrest, Jere School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor Emeritus of
Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, 1987, MD (Vanderbilt University),
Plasma lipoprotein structure and function
Selinger, Nikita College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Associate Professor of Mathematics, 2015,
Ph.D. (Jacobs University, Bremen), Conformal Dynamics; Teichmüller
Theory
Sen, Bisakha School of Public Health
Department of Health Care Organization and Policy, Professor,
BCBS Endowed Chair, 2002, Ph.D. (Ohio State), Health policy,
health economics, health services research, Medicaid/CHIP, social
determinants of health, mental health and substance abuse, obesity, gun
policy, reproductive health policy, applied econometrics
Serra, Rosa College of Joint Health
Sciences
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Professor of Cell,
Development, and Integrative Biology, 2002, BS (St. Louis University),
PhD (Pennsylvania State University), Mechanisms of TGF-ß action in
developmental and disease processes
Sethu, Palaniappan School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Medicine and
Biomedical Engineering, 2013, BTech (PSG College of Technology),
MEng, MS, PhD (University of Michigan), Microfluidic cellular and
molecular analysis, physiologically relevant models of cardiac and
vascular tissue, nanotechnology based approaches to study sub-cellular
signaling
Sewell-Loftin, Mary K. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 2020, BS, MS (University of Alabama), PhD
(Vanderbilt University), Tumor microenvironment, 3D tissue engineering,
biomechanical behaviors of cancer cells
Shackleford, Lee College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Professor of Theatre, 2000, B.A. (UAB), M.F.A.
(Southern Illinois)
Shaia, Jacquelyn S. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Assistant Professor, Director,
Public Relations, 2015, B.A., Ph.D. (University of Alabama); J.D.
(Cumberland School of Law)
Sharlach, Lisa College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Associate
Professor and Women’s and Gender Studies Director, 2004, B.A.
(California), M.A. (California), Ph.D. (California - Davis)
Shealy, David L. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Professor Emeritus of Physics, 1973, B.S., Ph.D.
(Georgia), Geometrical optics; laser beam shaping optics; radiative
transfer; caustic and optical aberration theory
Shebib, Samantha College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Assistant Professor, 2021, ,
B.S. (Arizona State University), M.S. (Illinois State University), Ph.D.
(Michigan State )
Shebib, Samantha College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Assistant Professor, 2021,
B.S. (Arizona State University), M.S. (Illinois State University), Ph.D.
(Michigan State)
Sheek, Lesley School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Dean and Assistant
Professor of Early Childhood and Elementary Education, 2021, B.S.,
M.EdS. (University of South Alabama), Ed.S., Ph.D. (UAB)
Sheng, Shibin (Simon) School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Professor of
Marketing, 2011, B.S. (Tsinghua University), Ph.D. Economics (Tsinghua
University) Ph.D. Marketing (Virginia Tech)
Sherif, Muhammad M. College of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Assistant Professor of Civil, Contstruction, and Environmental
Engineering, 2019, MS (United Arab Emirates University), MS (Carnegie
Mellon University), PhD (University of Virginia), Structural analysis and
modeling, innovative materials, machine learning
Shirey, Maria R. School of Nursing
Professor and Dean of Nursing; Fay B. Ireland Endowed Chair in
Nursing, 2013, B.S.N. (Florida State); M.S.N. (Texas Women's); M.B.A.
(Tulane); Ph.D. (Indiana)
Shores, Melanie L. School of Education
Department of Human Studies , Associate Professor of Educational
Psychology and Research, 2005, B.S., M.A.M., M.A., Ph.D. (Auburn),
Gender studies, Math/Science education, and Assessment and
measurement
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 35
Shorten, Allison School of Nursing
Professor of Nursing, Chair, Acute, Chronic Continuing Care,, 2016,
B.S.N., M.S.N. (University of Wollongong), Ph.D. (University of Sydney)
Shterenberg, Roman G. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 2007, M.S.,
Ph.D. (St. Petersburg State Univ – Russia), Mathematical Physics,
Spectral Theory, Inverse Problems, Partial Differential Equations, Non-
linear Partial Differential Equations
Shumaker, Ketia College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Assistant Professor of Biology, 2023, B.S. and
M.S. (Alcorn State), Ph.D. (Jackson State), Phytoremediation
Sicking, Dean L. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Professor Emeritus of
Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2012, BS, MS, PhD (Texas
AM), Crashworthiness design, sports safety equipment, computational
mechanics
Siegel, Daniel College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2002, B.A.
(Chicago), M.A., Ph.D. (Virginia), Nineteenth-Century British Literature
and Culture, The Novel, Cinema
Silvera, Geoffrey School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Associate Professor,
2021, Ph.D. (The Pennsylvania State University)
Simien, Clayton College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Associate Professor of Physics, 2013, B.S.
(Prairie View AM), Ph.D. (Rice), Strongly correlated ultracold neutral
plasmas; next generation frequency standards; precision measurements
and variations in fundamental constants; quantum dipolar gases and
rare-earth elements; laser cooling; nanotechnology; atomic sensors;
quantum information, computation, communication
Simpson, Laura Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Senior Assistant Librarian, Cataloging
Collection Management, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 2008, B.A. (Rhodes
College), M.L.S. (Indiana-Bloomington)
Sims, Sandra School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Professor of Kinesiology, 2005, B.S.
(Montevallo), M.A. (UAB), Ed.S. (UAB), Ph.D. (Southern Mississippi),
Physical Education/ Youth fitness, school health fitness / Advocacy
initiatives and legislation for healthy youth
Simányi, Nándor College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1999, M.S.,
Ph.D. (Rolánd Eötvös - Hungary), Dr.M.S. (Hungarian Academy of
Sciences), Dynamical Systems, Ergodic Theory, Topology
36 Faculty
Singh, Keshav College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Philosophy, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, 2021, B.A
(Princeton) ,M.A.(UNC Chapel Hill), Ph.D (UNC, Chapel Hill)
Sisiopiku, Virginia P. School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2002,
BS (Aristotelian University of Thessaloniki), MS, PhD (University of
Illinois-Chicago), Traffic operations, intelligent transportation systems,
sustainable transportation modes, human factors
Skarda, Jessica School of Nursing
Instructor, 2023, B.A. (AUM), M.S.N., (UAB)
Slaughter, Lauren College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2007, B.A.
(Kenyon), M.F.A. (Alabama), M.A. (Montana), Creative Writing, Poetry,
Literature, Composition
Sloane, Michael E. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Associate Professor of Psychology, Director,
University Honors Program, 1982, B.A., M.A. (University College,
Dublin), Ph.D. (Northwestern)
Smith, Angel School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Instructor of Accounting, 2008,
B.S., MAc. (UAB)
Smith, Daniel School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Associate Professor, 2010, PhD
(University of Virginia), The interaction of diet and metabolism in
relationship to aging and disease; obesity, calorie restriction, brown
adipose tissue
Smith, Rachel June School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Assistant Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2022, BS (University of
Tennessee, Knoxville), MS, PhD (University of California-Irvine).,
Dynamical network modeling, biomedical signal processing, system
theory, neural stimulation, computational modeling in epilepsy,
neuroengineering
Smith, Tamika School of Public Health
Department of Health Behavior, Assistant Professor, 2020, PhD (UAB),
Risky sexual health behavior and outcomes, child outcomes and first-
time parenting, HIV/STI among African American adolescents
Smith, Tina School of Nursing
Instructor, 2022, M.S.N., (UAB)
Smith, William M. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor Emeritus of
Biomedical Engineering, 1994, B.S. (Oglethorpe), Ph.D. (Duke)
Snyder, Scott W. School of Education
Department of Human Studies , Professor of Research and Early
Childhood Special Education, 1988, B.A. (SUNY-Potsdam), M.S., Ph.D.
(Purdue), Program evaluation, applications of the Rasch model to scale
construction, grading in K-16 education, applications of systems theory
and Bronfenbrenner’s theory to education and related programs
Song, Chen School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Senior Instructor of Accounting,
2013, BS (Beijing Information Technology Institute), MA (Virginia Tech)
Song, Yuhua School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2006, BS (Jilin University of Technology), MS (Harbin
University of Science and Technology), PhD (Harbin Institute of
Technology), Novel therapeutic drug identification, drug repurposing,
biomolecular interactions, integrated multiscale computational
modeling and experimental study, Alzheimer’s disease, breast cancer,
regenerative medicine
Soorappan, Rajasekaran N School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of Molecular
and Cellular Pathology, MSc, MPhil, PhD (University of Madras),
Transcriptional regulations; Redox signaling; Proteotoxic cardiac and
brain diseases; Aging; Stem cells; Muscle and cardiac regeneration.
Sorace, Anna School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Adjunct Assistant Professor
of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2019, BS (Mississippi State
University), MS, PhD (UAB), Cancer imaging, drug delivery, tumor
microenvironment, precision oncology
Sorge, Robert College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Associate Professor of Psychology, 2012,
H.B.Sc. (McMaster), M.A. (Wilfrid Laurier), Ph.D. (Concordia)
Sosa, Santiago College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Assistant Professor of Theatre, 2021, B.A.
(Texas State), M.F.A. (Wisconsin)
Spence, Paul H. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Professor Emeritus, Mervyn H. Sterne Library,
1970, A.B., M.A. (Emory), Ph.D. (Illinois)
Spezzini, Susan K. School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Professor of English as
a Second Language Education, 2005, B.A. (UC San Diego), M.A.
(California), Ph.D. (Alabama)
Stanishevskaya, Irina N. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Senior Assistant Librarian, Cataloging
Collection Management, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 2008, B.S.
(Belarusian University of Culture), M.L.I.S. (Alabama)
Stanishevsky, Andrei V. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Professor of Physics, 2002, M.S. (Minsk
Radioengineer Institute-USSR), Ph.D. (Belarus Academy of Sciences –
USSR), Focused ion beam micro- and nanofabrication; PVD thin films
deposition, characterization, and application; nanoparticle research
Stanislavova, Milena College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 2021, M.S.
(Sofia Univ, Bulgaria), 2000 Ph.D. (Missouri - Columbia), Partial
Differential Equations, Dynamical Systems, Analysis
Starr, Shannon College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Associate Professor of Mathematics, 2012,
B.A. (California - Berkeley), Ph.D. (California - Davis), Mathematical
Physics and Probability
Steadman, Laura School of Nursing
Assistant Professor of Nursing, 2010, B.S.N. (Auburn University), M.S.N.
(Troy State), Ed.D. (UA)
Steele, Brian D. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Associate Professor of History, 2005, B.A., M.A.
(Tulsa), Ph.D. (North Carolina)
Stefanov, Atanas College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 2021, D.E.A.
(University of Paris-VI), M.S. (Sofia Univ, Bulgaria), D.E.A. (Univ of
Paris - VI, France),Ph.D. (Missouri - Columbia),, Fourier Analysis, Partial
Differential Equations
Stepanikova, Irena College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Associate Professor of Sociology, 2012, B.A.
(Campbellsville), M.A. (Masaryk), Ph.D. (Stanford)
Stephens, Jerry W. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Librarian and Director, Mervyn H. Sterne
Library, 1974, B.S., M.B.A. (UAB), M.L.S., Ph.D. (Alabama)
Stewart, Katherine M.E. School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Adjunct Assistant
Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2019, BS (Wilfrid
Laurier University), MS, PhD (University of Waterloo), Synthesis and
modification of polymeric materials
Stocks, Douglas R. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Associate Professor Emeritus of
Mathematics, 1969, B.A., M.A., Ph.D. (Texas)
Stolz, Günter College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1994, Ph.D.
(Frankfurt, Germany), Spectral Theory, Mathematical Physics
Strang, Christianne College of Arts and
Sciences
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 37
Department of Psychology, Assistant Professor of Psychology, 2014,
B.S. (Miami), M.A. (Vermont), Ph.D. (UAB)
Sui, Mingxiao College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Assistant Professor, 2021,
B.A. (Hunan University, China), M.A. (Hunan University, China), Ph.D.
(Louisiana State)
Sullivan, Andrew School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs, Associate Professor of
Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2009, BS (University
of Pennsylvania), MS (UAB), PE (AL), Transportation Engineering,
Traffic Operations
Sullivan, Angela School of Public Health
Department of Health Behavior, Assistant Professor and Assistant Dean
for Admissions Enrollment Management , 2023, Ph.D., M.S. (UAB),
Suicide prevention, Community assessment, Community engagement,
Holistic admissions, Holistic student services
Summerlin, Jennifer School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of
Reading, 2018, B.A., M.A., Ph.D. (UAB), NBPTS
Sun, Liou Y. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Associate Professor of Biology, 2015, B.S.,
M.D. (Southeast University); Ph.D. (Southern Illinois), Biology of Aging,
Endocrinology, Obesity, Neurodegenerative Diseases
Szaflarski, Magdalena College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Professor of Sociology, 2012, B.A., M.A.
(Michigan), Ph.D. (Cincinnati)
Sánchez-
College of Arts and
López, Lourdes
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Professor of Spanish;
Director, Spanish for Specific Purposes Certificate Program, 2001, B.A.
(Universidad de Granada), M.A. (Southern Mississippi), M.A., Ph.D.
(Universidad de Jaén)
Takamiya, Yumi College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor
of Japanese, 2015, B.A. (Bunkyo University, Japan), M.A. (Wisconsin-
Madison), Ph.D. (Purdue )
Talley, George School of Engineering
Department of Civil Engineering, Adjunct Instructor of Civil, Construction,
and Environmental Engineering, 2014, BS (Auburn University), MS
(UAB), PE (AL), Construction management; Project management
Tanik, Murat M. School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Professor
Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1998, BS (Middle
East Technical University), MSC, PhD (Texas AM), Software systems
engineering, quantum information theory
38 Faculty
Tanner, Rikki M. School of Public Health
Department of Public Health, Instructor, 2024, PhD (UAB), Hypertension,
Cardiovascular and Kidney Diseases, Health Disparities
Tant, Cynthia J College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Assistant Professor of Biology, 2021, B.S.
(Birmingham-Southern), M.S. (Alabama), Ph.D. (Georgia), General
Biology, Limnology, Ecosystem Ecology, Environmental Science
Temple, Gale M. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2001, B.S.
(Michigan), M.A., Ph.D. (Loyola-Chicago), Early American Literature and
Culture
Temples, Taryn School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2017, B.S.N (Clemson), M.S.N. (Samford)
Terndrup, Thomas E. School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Informatics, M.D., Professor (Emergency
Medicine)
Thomas, Vinoy School of Engineering
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Associate Professor
of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2007, BS, MS (University
of Kerala), PhD (Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences
Technology), Polymeric biomaterials processing, 3D printed/bioprinted
scaffolds for tissue engineering, nanomaterials and nanoparticles
for therapeutic applications, plasma materials synthesis and surface
modification, thermal characterization
Thomeer, Mieke B. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Associate Professor of Sociology, 2014, B.A.
(Virginia), M.A., Ph.D. (Texas)
Thompson, Sam School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Information Systems, 2013, B.A.,
M.B.A. (Texas AM University); M.S., Ph.D. (University of Alabama)
Thompson, Sam School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Assistant Professor of Information Systems, 2013, B.A., M.B.A.
(Texas A M), M.S., Ph.D. (UA)
Tian, Qing College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer
Science, 2024, B.Eng. (Yanshan, China), M.Eng., Ph.D. (McGill,
Canada)
Todak, Natalie College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Associate Professor, 2017, B.A.
(California-San Diego), M.S. (Bowling Green State), Ph.D. (Arizona
State), Policing, Use of Force, De-escalation, Qualitative Methods
Tofani, Peter School of Nursing
Assistant Dean of Student Affairs; Instructor of Nursing, 2008, B.S. (The
United States Military Academy), MS (Pennsylvania State), Ed.D (UA)
Tollefsbol, Trygve College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Distinguished Professor of Biology, 1998, B.S.
(Houston), M.S., D.O., Ph.D. (North Texas Health Sciences Center),
Gene Regulation in Cancer and Aging, Epigenetics of Nutrition
Toth, Adam J. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World languages and Literatures, Visiting Assistant
Professor of German, 2022, B.A. (California- Riverside), M.A., Ph.D.
(Penn State- Main)
Tucker, Brenna College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Instructor, 2020, M.S. (Texas Woman's
University), Ph.D. (UAB)
Tucker, Diane C. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor Emerita of Psychology, 1984, B.S.,
M.S., Ph.D. (Iowa)
Turel, Noa College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Art Art History, Associate Professor of Art History, 2012,
B.A. (State University of New York), M.A. (University of London), Ph.D.
(California-Santa Barbara), North Renaissance Art, Late Medieval and
Early Modern Visual Culture and Science, Performance Art and Theory
Turner, Benjamin P College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Instructor of Biology, 2021, B.A. (Utah-Brigham
Young University), M.S. (Iowa-Palmer College of Chiropractic), Human
Anatomy, Cadaver Dissection, and Mycological Cultivation
Tyler, Jamie School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, 2022,
BS, PhD (UAB), Neuroengineering, neurotechnology, physical medicine
and rehabilitation
Uddin, Nasim School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Professor of Civil, Construction and Environmental Engineering, 2001,
BS (University of Engineering and Technology), MS (University of
Oklahoma-Norman), PhD (University at Buffalo), PE (NY), Structural
Engineering, Wind and Seismic Loads, Bridge Design
Unan, Mahmut College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer
Science, 2018, B.S. (Ege, Turkey), M.S., Ph.D. (University of Houston)
Unnikrishnan, Avinash School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Chair and Fouad H. Fouad Endowed
Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, 2023,
BS, (Indian Institute of Technology Madras), MS (Vanderbilt University),
PhD (University of Texas at Austin), Transportation and freight network
analysis, transportation planning, data analysis, optimization and
simulation
Uswatte, Gitendra College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor of Psychology, 2001, B.A.
(Princeton), M.A., Ph.D. (UAB)
Van Matre, Joseph G. School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Emeritus Professor of Quantitative Methods, 1971, B.E.E.,
M.B.A. (Auburn University), Ph.D. (University of Alabama)
Van Sant, John E. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Associate Professor of History, 2000, B.A., M.A.
(UC-Davis), Ph.D. (Oregon)
Vance, David School of Nursing
Professor of Nursing, 2004, B.S. (Virginia Tech), M.S. (New Orleans),
M.G.S. (Miami), Ph.D. (UAB)
Vantsevich, Vladimir V. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Adjunct Professor of Mechanical
and Materials Engineering, 2012, DipEng, PhD (Belarusian National
Technical University), DSc. (State Supreme Attestation Board, Moscow),
Mechatronic systems design, modeling and control, manned/unmanned
ground vehicle dynamics and design, dynamics and design of robotic
manipulators
Vaughn, Gregg L. School of Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Professor Emeritus
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 1979, BS, ME, PhD (University
of Alabama), PE (AL), Digital Communication, Image Processing,
Radiation Effects
Velu, Sadanandan College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Professor of Chemistry, 2002, B.Sc., M.Sc.
(Calicut, India), Ph.D. (Madras, India)
Vendrell Llopis, Nuria School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering, 2024, BS, MS (Universitat Politecnica de
Valencia), PhD (KU Leuven), Neuroprosthetics, brain-machine interface,
neural stimulation, neuroengineering, learning
Ver Hoef, Lawrence School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Neurobiology,
2004, MD (Wake Forest University School of Medicine), Clinical
neurophysiology/ neuroimaging and magnetoencephalography
Verbeek, Peter College of Arts and
Sciences
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 39
Department of Anthropology, , Associate Professor, Director of Graduate
Studies, 2015, B.S. (Eckerd College), M.A., Ph.D. (Emory)
Vermeer, Thomas School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Professor of Accounting, 2022,
BS (George Mason University), MS (University of North Texas), Ph.D.
(University of North Texas)
Verstraet, Charly, College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of World Languages and Literatures, Assistant Professor of
French,, 2019,, B.A. (Université Catholique de Lille, France), M.A. (North
Carolina State .), Ph.D. (Emory )
Vetter, Imelda L. Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Assistant Librarian, Reference Services,
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 2007, B.A. (Oberlin), M.L.S. (Indiana)
Vickery, Minako College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Instructor of Biology, 2021, BS and MS (Toyama,
Japan), Ph.D. (UAB), Genetics, Microbiology, Marine Invertebrate
Embryology, Asteroids Phylogeny.
Vines, Adam College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Professor of English and Director of Creative
Writing, 2006, B.A., M.A. (UAB), M.F.A. (Florida), Creative Writing,
Poetry, Twentieth and Twentieth-First Century Poetry
Visscher, Kristina School of Optometry
Department of Vision Sciences, Professor of Neurobiology, 2009, PhD
(Washington University-St. Louis), Cognitive neuroscience
Vohra, Yogesh K. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Professor of Physics, University Scholar,
Associate Dean, 1992, B.S., M.S. (Delhi, India), Ph.D. (Bombay, India),
Materials under extremes of pressures and temperatures; X-ray and
neutron diffraction studies; microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition
of diamond and related materials; nanoscale materials and biointegration
Wagner, Amber College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer
Science, 2023, B.S., M.S. (Kennesaw State), Ph.D. (Alabama)
Walden, Carolyn Mervyn H. Sterne
Library
Mervyn H. Sterne Library, Associate Librarian; Head, Cataloging
Collection Management, Mervyn H. Sterne Library, 1978, B.M., M.A.
(Iowa), M.M. (Cincinnati)
Waldron, Christopher School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Associate Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental
Engineering, 2008, BS (Drexel University), MS, PhD (Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University), PE (PA), Structural
engineering, bridge design, engineering mechanics
40 Faculty
Walker, Harrison School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Neurology, 2006,
BH (Birmingham-Southern College), MD (UAB), Deep brain stimulation
for the management of Parkinson’s disease and other movement
disorders
Walker, Jeffery College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, University Professor and J. Frank
Barefield, Jr. Endowed Chair in Communities and Crime, 1992, B.S.
(Arkansas), M.A. (Arkansas - Little Rock), Ph.D. (Sam Houston), Social
Structures of Neighborhoods, Crime Analysis/Mapping, Crime and Place
Wallace, Diana G. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Instructor of Mechanical and
Materials Engineering, 2019, BS (Auburn University), MS (UAB),
Engineering communications and entrepreneurship
Walsh, Peter M. School of Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Research Professor Emeritus
of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, 2002, BS (Robert College),
MA (Wesleyan University), PhD (Cornell University), Carbon dioxide
sequestration, combustion in industrial furnaces and electric utility
boilers, control of air pollutant emissions from combustion
Wang, Pengfei College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Professor of Chemistry, 2005, B.E., B.Sc.
(Tsinghua, China), M.S. (Illinois-Chicago), Ph.D. (Wisconsin)
Wang, Tianyang College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Assistant Professor of Computer
Science, 2023, B.S., MS (Jilin, China), Ph.D. (Southern Illinois
University)
Wang, Yajing School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Vice Chair for Research and Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 2022, MS, MD (Shanxi Medical University), PhD
(Shanghai Jiao Tong University), Interorgan/cell-cell communication,
heart failure, microcirculation, endocrinology, diabetic cardiomyopathy
Wang, Yu-mei School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Associate Professor, 2002,
B.A. (Harbin Normal University, China), Ph.D. (Oregon-Eugene)
Ward, Walter D. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Professor of History, 2010, B.A., M.A. (NC State),
M.A., Ph.D. (UCLA)
Ware, Jennifer School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2015, B.S.N., D.N.P., (UAB)
Warner, David F. College of Arts
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Associate Professor of Sociology, 2019, B.S.
(Cornell), M.A., Ph.D. (Pennsylvania State)
Warner, Gary College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Director of the Computer Forensics
Research Lab, 2007, B.S. (UAB), Digital Forensics, Cybercrime and
Security
Warner, Tara College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Criminal Justice, Associate Professor and Director of
Master of Science in Criminal Justice, B.A. and B.S. (Louisiana State),
M.A (Pennsylvania State), Ph.D., (Bowling Green State), Sociology,
Victimization, Health Well-being, Neighborhoods, Adolescence and
Emerging Adulthood
Warner, Vessela College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Theatre, Professor of Theater, 2007, M.A. (Sofia
University, Bulgaria), M.F.A. (ABT) (National Conservatory of Theater,
Bulgaria), Ph.D. (Washington)
Wasko, Molly McLure School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, University Professor of Information Systems, 2010, B.B.A.,
B.A. (James Madison University), M.B.A. (Averett University), Ph.D.
(University of Maryland, College Park)
Watkins, Jr., Tommie Lee College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Social Work, Assistant Professor, 2022, B.S. (Embry-
Riddle), M.S.W. (Alabama), M.Div. (General Theological Seminary),
Ph.D. (UAB)
Watson, Amy College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Assistant Professor of History, 2020, B.A. (Yale),
M.Phil. (University of Cambridge), Ph.D. (Yale)
Watson, Jolisa School of Nursing
Instructor, 2022, B.S., (USM), M.S.N., (UAB)
Watts, Penni School of Nursing
Associate Professor Interim Associate Dean for Technology and
Innovation, 2002, B.S.N. (Auburn), M.S.N. (Troy State), Ph.D. (UAB)
Watts, Stephen A. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Professor of Biology, 1987, B.S. (Auburn), M.S.,
Ph.D. (South Florida), Nutrition of Animal Models; Aquatic Biology
Waugh, Jonathan B. School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Associate Professor,
Respiratory Therapy Program, 1999, Ph.D. (Ohio State)
Webb, Robin School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2021, B.S.N. (Auburn Univ.), M.S.N. (UAB)
Webb, Tera School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Assistant Professor,
2021, Ph.D. (UAB), Medical Laboratory Science and Simulation
Wech, Barbara School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Management, 2001, B.S. (Wayne State
University), M.B.A. (Michigan State University), Ph.D. (Louisiana State
University)
Weech-
Maldonado, Robert
School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Professor and L. R.
Jordan Endowed Chair of Health Administration, 2009, PhD (Temple
University)
Weikard, Rudi College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1990, Ph.D.
(Technical Univ of Braunschweig, Germany), Ordinary and Partial
Differential Equations, Mathematical Physics
Wells, Jaclyn College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Associate Professor of English, 2013, B.A.
(Knox), M.A. (Southern Illinois University Carbondale), Ph.D. (Purdue),
Rhetoric and Composition, Writing Program Administration
Westenberger, Scott. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Teaching Assistant Professor of Sociology,
2022, B.A. (Minnesota), M.A., Ph.D., (Stanford)
Westmont, Camille College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Anthropology, Assistant Professor, 2024, B.A. (Kentucky),
M.A.A., M.H.P., Ph.D. (Maryland)
White, Dwayne School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Assistant Professor of Counselor
Education, 2021, , B.A. (Fort Valley State University); M.P.A, M.S.
(Columbus State University); Ph.D. (Auburn University)., Wellness
and Liberation of Black LGBTQIA+ People; Humanistic Post-Modern
Approaches in Counseling
Wibbels, Thane College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Biology, Professor of Biology, 1993, B.S. (Nebraska),
M.S. (Houston), Ph.D. (Texas AM), Reproductive and Conservation
Biology
Wick, Timothy M. School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2005, BS (University of Colorado at Boulder), PhD (Rice
University), Tissue engineering and regenerative medicine, bioreactor
design, drug delivery, engineering design, engineering innovation
Wickman, Lauren College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, 2022,
B.A., M.S., Ph.D. (Florida), Topological Dynamics, Model Theory, and
Continuum Theory
Wiesen, Jonathan College of Arts and
Sciences
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 41
Departmen of History, Professor of History, 2019, B.A. (UC Berkeley),
M.A., Ph.D. (Brown)
Wilkinson, Larrell School of Education
Department of Human Studies, Associate Professor of Community
Health and Human Services, 2012, B.S. (Tennessee State University),
MSPH, Ph.D. (University of South Carolina), Health Education, Health
Disparities/Health Equity, Access and utilization of health care services,
Substance Abuse
Willey, Christopher School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiation Oncology,
2008, MD/PhD (Medical University of South Carolina), Kinase driven
signal transduction cascades in a spectrum of biological systems,
bioinformatics for kinomics and personalized medicine, systems biology
approaches in glioblastoma multiforme
Williams, Jessica Hillman School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Adminsitration, Associate Professor
and Program Director, BS in Health Care Management Program, 2012,
PhD (UAB), The Role of Patients' Unconscious Bias in the Delivery of
Healthcare, Health Disparities
Wilson, Lara College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Music, Assistant Professor of Music, 2021, B.M.
(Cincinnati), M.M. (Indiana), D.M.A. (South Carolina)
Windham, Heather School of Education
Department of Human Studies , Assistant Professor of Counselor
Education, 2022, B.S. (Auburn University); M.Ed. (Auburn University at
Montgomery); Ph.D. (Auburn University), , School Counselor Advocacy,
Counseling Theories, Advocacy with Marginalized Populations, Suicide
Prevention
Witherspoon, Taajah School of Education
Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Assistant Professor of Early
Childhood and Elementary Education, 2018, B.S. (Alabama State), M.A.,
Ed.S., Ph.D. (UAB)
Wittig, John W. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Interim Chair, Department of
Communication Studies; Associate Professor of Communication Studies,
1981, A.B. (Carson-Newman), M.A. (Florida), Ph.D. (Southern Illinois)
Wolfe, Joseph D. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Sociology, Associate Professor of Sociology, 2013, B.A.
(Millsaps), M.A. (Indiana), M.S., Ph.D. (Indiana)
Wood, Joseph College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Assistant Professor of English, 2014, B.A.
(Brandeis), M.F.A. (Arizona), Creative Writing, Poetry, Literature,
Composition
42 Faculty
Woodroof, Parker School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Assistant
Professor, 2015, BA (Middle Tennessee State University), MBA (Belmont
University), PhD (The University of Memphis)
Woodward, Laura School of Nursing
Instructor of Nursing, 2021, B.S.N. (UA), M.S.N. (UAB)
Wooten, Michelle College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Assistant Professor of Physics, 2021, B.S. (UC
Santa Cruz), M.S. (San Francisco State), Ph.D. (Alabama), Astronomy
education, qualitative research methodologies, Dark skies advocacy
Worrell, James L. School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Professor of Accounting, 2008,
B.S., M.Ac., Ph.D. (Florida State University)
Wright, Tyler School of Health
Professions
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences, Assistant Professor,
2018, PhD (UAB)
Wyatt, Holly School of Health
Professions
Department of Nutrition Sciences, Professor and Vice Chair for Clinical
Programs, 2019, M.D. (Baylor College of Medicine)
Xu, Nuo School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Associate Professor of Quantitative Methods, 2010, B.S.
(Shanghai Jiao Tong University), M.S., Ph.D. (University of Cincinnati)
Xue, Fei College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Assistant Professor of Physics, 2021, B.S.
(Nanjing University), Ph.D. (Texas at Austin), Condensed matter theory;
interaction-induced exotic phases collective excitations; topological
phases materials; first-principles calculations; spintronics; spin-orbit
coupling mediated quantum transport
Yang, Fan College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Communication Studies, Assistant Professor, 2017, B.A.
(China Youth University for Political Science), M.A., Ph.D. (University of
Miami)
Yang, Junjie, School of Engineering
Department of BIomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 2018, B.S. (Qingdao University), M.S. (Second
Military Medical University), Ph.D. (Osaka University), Biology and
therapeutic uses of extracellular vesicles
Yates, Stephanie School of Business
Department of Accounting and Finance, Professor of Finance, Chair,
Department of Accounting and Finance, 2007, B.S., M.A., M.B.A.
(Cincinnati), Ph.D. (LSU)
Ye, Lei School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2022, MD (Shanghai Medical University), PhD (National
University of Singapore), Cardiac tissue engineering, stem cell biology,
gene and cell therapy, Type 2 diabetes
Yoder, Stephen A. School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Assistant
Professor of Legal Studies, 2008, A.B. (Duke), J.D. (Northwestern
University School of Law)
Young, Jennifer College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of English, Assistant Professor of English, 2007, B.A.
(Whittier), M.A. PhD (Tulane), American Literature, Composition
Younger, Jarred W. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Psychology, Professor of Psychology, 2014, B.A.
(Maryville), Ph.D. (Tennessee)
Yuen, Hon School of Health
Professions
Department of Occupational Therapy, Professor and Director of
Research, Ph.D., OTR/L
Yusen, Zhai School of Education
Department of Human Studies , , Assistant Professor of Counselor
Education, 2021, Ph.D. (The Pennsylvania State University), M.Ed.
(University of Maine), B.E. (Beijing University of Technology), , Health
disparities, Outcomes research in mental health, Epidemiology and
infectious disease, Social justice advocacy.
Zaman, Nohel School of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Quantitative
Methods, Assistant Professor of Quantitative Methods, 2022, B.S., M.S.
(University of Texas Dallas), M.S. (North Carolina AT State University),
Ph.D. (Virginia Tech)
Zaretsky, Natasha College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of History, Professor of History, 2019, B.A. (UC Sana Cruz),
M.A., Ph.D. (Brown)
Zech, Wesley C. School of Engineering
Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering,
2019, BS, ME, PhD (University at Buffalo), Construction management,
construction safety, erosion and sediment control
Zeng, Yanni College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Professor of Mathematics, 1997, B.S., M.S.
(Zhongshan, China), Ph.D. (New York), Nonlinear Analysis, Applied
Partial Differential Equations
Zengul, Ferhat School of Health
Professions
Department of Health Services Administration, Associate Professor,
2015, PhD (UAB)
Undergraduate Catalog 2024-2025 43
Zhang, Chengcui College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Professor and Graduate Program
Director of Computer Science, 2004, B.S., M.S. (Zhejiang, China), Ph.D.
(Florida International)
Zhang, Jianyi (Jay) School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Chair of Biomedical Engineering,
Professor of Medicine and Biomedical Engineering, T Michael and
Gilliam Goodrich Endowed Chair of Engineering Leadership, 2015, MS
(Tufts University), MD (Shanghai Medical University), PhD (University of
Minnesota), Cardiac tissue engineering, NMR imaging, heart failure
Zhang, Jun College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Chemistry, Associate Professor of Chemistry, 2016, B.S.
(Nankai, China), M.S. (Tsinghua, China), Ph.D. (North Carolina, Chapel
Hill)
Zhang, Xiaoni School of Business
Department of Management Information Systems, Professor of
Information Systems, 2022, B.S. (Hebei University of Engineering),
M.B.A. (Huron University), Ph.D. (University of North Texas)
Zhang, Yufei School of Business
Department of Marketing, Industrial Distribution, Economics, Assistant
Professor of Marketing, 2018, B.A. (UIBE, China), M.S., Ph.D. (Michigan
State)
Zhao, Jianli School of Engineering
Department of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, 2022, MS (Shanxi Medical University), USMLE step1 400
topics and pre-test training, aging-related heart and brain disease
Zheng, Yuliang College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Computer Science, Professor and Chair of Computer
Science, 2015, B.S. (Nanjing, China), M.S., Ph.D. (Yokohama - Japan)
Zhou, Tieying College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Philosophy, Visiting Assistant Professor, 2023, B.A.
(Shaanxi Normal University, China), M.A. (Fudan University, China),
M.A. (Missouri-Columbia), Ph.D. (Missouri-Columbia)
Zhou, Yang School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Assistant Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, 2019, BS (Fudan University in China), PhD
(Chinese Academy of Sciences), Cardiac reprogramming, heart
regeneration, stem cells, epigenetics
Zhou, Yong School of Engineering
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Associate Professor of
Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine, 2009, MD (Wuhan
University, China), Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, primary open-angle
glaucoma, pulmonary and ocular mechanobiology
Zingara, James Department of Music, Professor of Music, 2011, B.S. (Wisconsin-La
Crosse), M.M. (East Carolina), D.M.A. (Illinois)
Zou, Henghui College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Mathematics, Associate Professor of Mathematics, 1994,
B.S. (Xiangtan, P.R.C.), M.S. (Peking, P.R.C.), Ph.D. (Minnesota),
Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations, Nonlinear Analysis
Zvanut, Mary E. College of Arts and
Sciences
Department of Physics, Professor of Physics, 1992, B.S., M.S.,
Ph.D. (Lehigh), Electrical studies and EPR studies of insulators and
semiconductors; microelectronics and optoelectronics
College of Arts and
Sciences